Harry Potter
And the Order OF Phoenix


The hottest day of the summer so far was drawing to a close and
a drowsy silence lay over the large, square houses of Privet
Drive. Cars that were usually gleaming stood dusty in their drives and
lawns that were once emerald green lay parched and yellowing; the use
of hosepipes had been banned due to drought. Deprived of their usual
car-washing and lawn-mowing pursuits, the inhabitants of Privet
Drive had retreated into the shade of their cool houses, windows
thrown wide in the hope of tempting in a nonexistent breeze. The
only person left outdoors was a teenage boy who was lying flat on his
back in a flower bed outside number four.
He was a skinny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who had the
pinched, slightly unhealthy look of someone who has grown a lot in a
short space of time. His jeans were torn and dirty, his T-shirt baggy
and faded, and the soles of his trainers were peeling away from the uppers.
Harry Potter's appearance did not endear him to the neighbors,
who were the sort of people who thought scruffiness ought to be punishable
by law, but as he had hidden himself behind a large hydrangea
bush this evening he was quite invisible to passersby. In fact, the only


way he would be spotted was if his Uncle Vernon or Aunt Petunia
stuck their heads out of the living room window and looked straight
down into the flower bed below.
On the whole, Harry thought he was to be congratulated on his
idea of hiding here. He was not, perhaps, very comfortable lying on
the hot, hard earth, but on the other hand, nobody was glaring at
him, grinding their teeth so loudly that he could not hear the news, or
shooting nasty questions at him, as had happened every time he had
tried sitting down in the living room and watching television with his
aunt and uncle.
Almost as though this thought had fluttered through the open window,
Vernon Dursley, Harry's uncle, suddenly spoke. "Glad to see the
boy's stopped trying to butt in. Where is he anyway?"
"I don't know," said Aunt Petunia unconcernedly. "Not in the
house."
Uncle Vernon grunted.
"Watching the news . . ." he said scathingly. "I'd like to know what
he's really up to. As if a normal boy cares what's on the news - Dudley
hasn't got a clue what's going on, doubt he knows who the Prime
Minister is! Anyway, it's not as if there'd be anything about his lot on
our news -"
"Vernon, shh!" said Aunt Petunia. "The window's open!"
"Oh - yes - sorry, dear . . ."
The Dursleys fell silent. Harry listened to a jingle about Fruit 'N
Bran breakfast cereal while he watched Mrs. Figg, a batty, cat-loving
old lady from nearby Wisteria Walk, amble slowly past. She was
frowning and muttering to herself. Harry was very pleased that he was
concealed behind the bush; Mrs. Figg had recently taken to asking
him around for tea whenever she met him in the street. She had
rounded the corner and vanished from view before Uncle Vernon's
voice floated out of the window again.


"Dudders out for tea?"
"At the Polkisses'," said Aunt Petunia fondly. "He's got so many little
friends, he's so popular . . ."
Harry repressed a snort with difficulty. The Dursleys really were astonishingly
stupid about their son, Dudley; they had swallowed all his
dim-witted lies about having tea with a different member of his gang
every night of the summer holidays. Harry knew perfectly well that
Dudley had not been to tea anywhere; he and his gang spent every
evening vandalizing the play park, smoking on street corners, and
throwing stones at passing cars and children. Harry had seen them at
it during his evening walks around Little Whinging; he had spent
most of the holidays wandering the streets, scavenging newspapers
from bins along the way.
The opening notes of the music that heralded the seven o'clock
news reached Harry's ears and his stomach turned over. Perhaps
tonight - after a month of waiting - would be the night -
"Record numbers of stranded holidaymakers fill airports as the
Spanish baggage-handlers' strike reaches its second week -"
"Give 'em a lifelong siesta, I would," snarled Uncle Vernon over the
end of the newsreader's sentence, but no matter: Outside in the flower
bed, Harry's stomach seemed to unclench. If anything had happened,
it would surely have been the first item on the news; death and destruction
were more important than stranded holidaymakers. . . .
He let out a long, slow breath and stared up at the brilliant blue sky.
Every day this summer had been the same: the tension, the expectation,
the temporary relief, and then mounting tension again . . . and
always, growing more insistent all the time, the question of why nothing
had happened yet. . . .
He kept listening, just in case there was some small clue, not recognized
for what it really was by the Muggles - an unexplained
disappearance, perhaps, or some strange accident . . . but the


baggage-handlers' strike was followed by news on the drought in the
Southeast ("I hope he's listening next door!" bellowed Uncle Vernon,
"with his sprinklers on at three in the morning!"); then a helicopter
that had almost crashed in a field in Surrey, then a famous actress's divorce
from her famous husband ("as if we're interested in their sordid
affairs," sniffed Aunt Petunia, who had followed the case obsessively
in every magazine she could lay her bony hands on).
Harry closed his eyes against the now blazing evening sky as the
newsreader said, "And finally, Bungy the budgie has found a novel
way of keeping cool this summer. Bungy, who lives at the Five Feathers
in Barnsley, has learned to water-ski! Mary Dorkins went to find
out more. . . ."
Harry opened his eyes again. If they had reached water-skiing
budgerigars, there was nothing else worth . He rolled cautiously
onto his front and raised himself onto his knees and elbows,
preparing to crawl out from under the window.
He had moved about two inches when several things happened in
very quick succession.
A loud, echoing crack broke the sleepy silence like a gunshot; a cat
streaked out from under a parked car and flew out of sight; a shriek, a
bellowed oath, and the sound of breaking china came from the Dursleys'
living room, and as though Harry had been waiting for this
signal, he jumped to his feet, at the same time pulling from the waistband
of his jeans a thin wooden wand as if he were unsheathing a
sword. But before he could draw himself up to full height, the top of
his head collided with the Dursleys' open window, and the resultant
crash made Aunt Petunia scream even louder.
Harry felt as if his head had been split in two; eyes streaming, he
swayed, trying to focus on the street and spot the source of the noise,
but he had barely staggered upright again when two large purple
hands reached through the open window and closed tightly around
his throat.


"Put - it - away!" Uncle Vernon snarled into Harry's ear. "Now!
Before - anyone - sees!"
"Get - off - me!" Harry gasped; for a few seconds they struggled,
Harry pulling at his uncle's sausage-like fingers with his left
hand, his right maintaining a firm grip on his raised wand. Then, as
the pain in the top of Harry's head gave a particularly nasty throb, Uncle
Vernon yelped and released Harry as though he had received an
electric shock - some invisible force seemed to have surged through
his nephew, making him impossible to hold.
Panting, Harry fell forward over the hydrangea bush, straightened
up, and stared around. There was no sign of what had caused the loud
cracking noise, but there were several faces peering through various
nearby windows. Harry stuffed his wand hastily back into his jeans
and tried to look innocent.
"Lovely evening!" shouted Uncle Vernon, waving at Mrs. Number
Seven, who was glaring from behind her net curtains. "Did you hear
that car backfire just now? Gave Petunia and me quite a turn!"
He continued to grin in a horrible, manic way until all the curious
neighbors had disappeared from their various windows, then the grin
became a grimace of rage as he beckoned Harry back toward him.
Harry moved a few steps closer, taking care to stop just short of the
point at which Uncle Vernon's outstretched hands could resume their
strangling.
"What the devil do you mean by it, boy?" asked Uncle Vernon in a
croaky voice that trembled with fury.
"What do I mean by what?" said Harry coldly. He kept looking left
and right up the street, still hoping to see the person who had made
the cracking noise.
"Making a racket like a starting pistol right outside our -"
"I didn't make that noise," said Harry firmly.
Aunt Petunia's thin, horsey face now appeared beside Uncle Vernon's
wide, purple one. She looked livid.


"Why were you lurking under our window?"
"Yes - yes, good point, Petunia! What were you doing under our
window, boy?"
"Listening to the news," said Harry in a resigned voice.
His aunt and uncle exchanged looks of outrage.
"Listening to the news! Again?"
"Well, it changes every day, you see," said Harry.
"Don't you be clever with me, boy! I want to know what you're really
up to - and don't give me any more of this listening to the news
tosh! You know perfectly well that your lot . . ."
"Careful, Vernon!" breathed Aunt Petunia, and Uncle Vernon lowered
his voice so that Harry could barely hear him, ". . . that your lot
don't get on our news!"
"That's all you know," said Harry.
The Dursleys goggled at him for a few seconds, then Aunt Petunia
said, "You're a nasty little liar. What are all those -" she too lowered
her voice so that Harry had to lip-read the next word, "- owls -
doing if they're not bringing you news?"
"Aha!" said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper. "Get out of that
one, boy! As if we didn't know you get all your news from those pestilential
birds!"
Harry hesitated for a moment. It cost him something to tell the
truth this time, even though his aunt and uncle could not possibly
know how bad Harry felt at admitting it.
"The owls . . . aren't bringing me news," said Harry tonelessly.
"I don't believe it," said Aunt Petunia at once.
"No more do I," said Uncle Vernon forcefully.
"We know you're up to something funny," said Aunt Petunia.
"We're not stupid, you know," said Uncle Vernon.
"Well, that's news to me," said Harry, his temper rising, and before
the Dursleys could call him back, he had wheeled about, crossed the


front lawn, stepped over the low garden wall, and was striding off up
the street.
He was in trouble now and he knew it. He would have to face his
aunt and uncle later and pay the price for his rudeness, but he did not
care very much just at the moment; he had much more pressing matters
on his mind.
Harry was sure that the cracking noise had been made by someone
Apparating or Disapparating. It was exactly the sound Dobby the
house-elf made when he vanished into thin air. Was it possible that
Dobby was here in Privet Drive? Could Dobby be following him right
at this very moment? As this thought occurred he wheeled around and
stared back down Privet Drive, but it appeared to be completely deserted
again and Harry was sure that Dobby did not know how to
become invisible. . . .
He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was taking, for he had
pounded these streets so often lately that his feet carried him to his favorite
haunts automatically. Every few steps he glanced back over his
shoulder. Someone magical had been near him as he lay among Aunt
Petunias dying begonias, he was sure of it. Why hadn't they spoken to
him, why hadn't they made contact, why were they hiding now?
And then, as his feeling of frustration peaked, his certainty leaked
away.
Perhaps it hadn't been a magical sound after all. Perhaps he was so
desperate for the tiniest sign of contact from the world to which he
belonged that he was simply overreacting to perfectly ordinary noises.
Could he be sure it hadn't been the sound of something breaking inside
a neighbor's house?
Harry felt a dull, sinking sensation in his stomach and, before he
knew it, the feeling of hopelessness that had plagued him all summer
rolled over him once again. . . .
Tomorrow morning he would be awoken by the alarm at five


o'clock so that he could pay the owl that delivered the Daily
Prophet - but was there any point in continuing to take it? Harry
merely glanced at the front page before throwing it aside these days;
when the idiots who ran the paper finally realized that Voldemort was
back it would be headline news, and that was the only kind Harry
cared about.
If he was lucky, there would also be owls carrying letters from his
best friends, Ron and Hermione, though any expectation he had had
that their letters would bring him news had long since been dashed.
"We can't say much about you-know-what, obviously. . . ." "We've been
told not to say anything important in case our letters go astray. . . ."
"We're quite busy but I can't give you details here. . . ." "There's a fair
amount going on, we'll tell you everything when we see you. . . ."
But when were they going to see him? Nobody seemed too bothered
with a precise date. Hermione had scribbled, "I expect we'll be seeing
you quite soon" inside his birthday card, but how soon was soon? As
far as Harry could tell from the vague hints in their letters, Hermione
and Ron were in the same place, presumably at Ron's parents' house.
He could hardly bear to think of the pair of them having fun at the
Burrow when he was stuck in Privet Drive. In fact, he was so angry at
them that he had thrown both their birthday presents of Honeydukes
chocolates away unopened, though he had regretted this after eating
the wilting salad Aunt Petunia had provided for dinner that night.
And what were Ron and Hermione busy with? Why wasn't he,
Harry, busy? Hadn't he proved himself capable of handling much
more than they? Had they all forgotten what he had done? Hadn't it
been he who had entered that graveyard and watched Cedric being
murdered and been tied to that tombstone and nearly killed . . . ?
Don't think about that, Harry told himself sternly for the hundredth
time that summer. It was bad enough that he kept revisiting the graveyard
in his nightmares, without dwelling on it in his waking moments
too.


He turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent; halfway along he
passed the narrow alleyway down the side of a garage where he had
first clapped eyes on his godfather. Sirius, at least, seemed to understand
how Harry was feeling; admittedly his letters were just as empty
of proper news as Ron and Hermione's, but at least they contained
words of caution and consolation instead of tantalizing hints:
"I know this must be frustrating for you. . . ." "Keep your nose clean
and everything will be okay. . . ." "Be careful and don't do anything
rash. . . ."
Well, thought Harry, as he crossed Magnolia Crescent, turned into
Magnolia Road, and headed toward the darkening play park, he had
(by and large) done as Sirius advised; he had at least resisted the temptation
to tie his trunk to his broomstick and set off for the Burrow
by himself. In fact Harry thought his behavior had been very good
considering how frustrated and angry he felt at being stuck in Privet
Drive this long, reduced to hiding in flower beds in the hope of 
something that might point to what Lord Voldemort was doing.
Nevertheless, it was quite galling to be told not to be rash by a man
who had served twelve years in the wizard prison, Azkaban, escaped,
attempted to commit the murder he had been convicted for in the
first place, then gone on the run with a stolen hippogriff. . . .
Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off across the
parched grass. The park was as empty as the surrounding streets.
When he reached the swings he sank onto the only one that Dudley
and his friends had not yet managed to break, coiled one arm around
the chain, and stared moodily at the ground. He would not be able to
hide in the Dursleys' flower bed again. Tomorrow he would have to
think of some fresh way of listening to the news. In the meantime, he
had nothing to look forward to but another restless, disturbed night,
because even when he escaped nightmares about Cedric he had unsettling
dreams about long dark corridors, all finishing in dead ends and
locked doors, which he supposed had something to do with the


trapped feeling he had when he was awake. Often the old scar on his
forehead prickled uncomfortably, but he did not fool himself that
Ron or Hermione or Sirius would find that very interesting anymore.
. . . In the past his scar hurting had warned that Voldemort was
getting stronger again, but now that Voldemort was back they would
probably remind him that its regular irritation was only to be expected.
. . . Nothing to worry about . . . old news . . .
The injustice of it all welled up inside him so that he wanted to yell
with fury. If it hadn't been for him, nobody would even have known
Voldemort was back! And his reward was to be stuck in Little Whinging
for four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical world,
reduced to squatting among dying begonias so that he could hear
about water-skiing budgerigars! How could Dumbledore have forgotten
him so easily? Why had Ron and Hermione got together without
inviting him along too? How much longer was he supposed to endure
Sirius telling him to sit tight and be a good boy; or resist the temptation
to write to the stupid Daily Prophet and point out that Voldemort
had returned? These furious thoughts whirled around in Harry's
head, and his insides writhed with anger as a sultry, velvety night fell
around him, the air full of the smell of warm, dry grass and the only
sound that of the low grumble of traffic on the road beyond the park
railings.
He did not know how long he had sat on the swing before the
sound of voices interrupted his musings and he looked up. The streetlamps
from the surrounding roads were casting a misty glow strong
enough to silhouette a group of people making their way across the
park. One of them was singing a loud, crude song. The others were
laughing. A soft ticking noise came from several expensive racing
bikes that they were wheeling along.
Harry knew who those people were. The figure in front was unmistakably
his cousin, Dudley Dursley, wending his way home, accompanied
by his faithful gang.


Dudley was as vast as ever, but a year's hard dieting and the discovery
of a new talent had wrought quite a change in his physique. As
Uncle Vernon delightedly told anyone who would listen, Dudley had
recently become the Junior Heavyweight Inter-School Boxing Champion
of the Southeast. "The noble sport," as Uncle Vernon called it,
had made Dudley even more formidable than he had seemed to Harry
in the primary school days when he had served as Dudley's first
punching bag. Harry was not remotely afraid of his cousin anymore
but he still didn't think that Dudley learning to punch harder and
more accurately was cause for celebration. Neighborhood children all
around were terrified of him - even more terrified than they were of
"that Potter boy," who, they had been warned, was a hardened hooligan
who attended St. Brutus's Secure Center for Incurably Criminal
Boys.
Harry watched the dark figures crossing the grass and wondered
whom they had been beating up tonight. Look round, Harry found
himself thinking as he watched them. Come on . . . look round . . . I'm
sitting here all alone. . . . Come and have ago. . . .
If Dudley's friends saw him sitting here, they would be sure to
make a beeline for him, and what would Dudley do then? He
wouldn't want to lose face in front of the gang, but he'd be terrified of
provoking Harry. . . . It would be really fun to watch Dudley's
dilemma; to taunt him, watch him, with him powerless to respond
. . . and if any of the others tried hitting Harry, Harry was ready - he
had his wand . . . let them try . . . He'd love to vent some of his frustration
on the boys who had once made his life hell -
But they did not turn around, they did not see him, they were almost
at the railings. Harry mastered the impulse to call after them.
. . . Seeking a fight was not a smart move. . . . He must not use
magic. . . . He would be risking expulsion again. . . .
Dudley's gang's voices died; they were out of sight, heading along
Magnolia Road.


There you go, Sirius, Harry thought dully. Nothing rash. Kept my
nose clean. Exactly the opposite of what you'd have done . . .
He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon
seemed to feel that whenever Dudley turned up was the right time to
be home, and anytime after that was much too late. Uncle Vernon had
threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home after Dudley
again, so, stifling a yawn, still scowling, Harry set off toward the park
gate.
Magnolia Road, like Privet Drive, was full of large, square houses
with perfectly manicured lawns, all owned by large, square owners
who drove very clean cars similar to Uncle Vernon's. Harry preferred
Little Whinging by night, when the curtained windows made patches
of jewel-bright colors in the darkness and he ran no danger of 
disapproving mutters about his "delinquent" appearance when he
passed the householders. He walked quickly, so that halfway along
Magnolia Road Dudley's gang came into view again; they were saying
their farewells at the entrance to Magnolia Crescent. Harry stepped
into the shadow of a large lilac tree and waited.
". . . squealed like a pig, didn't he?" Malcolm was saying, to guffaws
from the others.
"Nice right hook, Big D," said Piers.
"Same time tomorrow?" said Dudley.
"Round at my place, my parents are out," said Gordon.
"See you then," said Dudley.
"Bye Dud!"
"See ya, Big D!"
Harry waited for the rest of the gang to move on before setting off
again. When their voices had faded once more he headed around the
corner into Magnolia Crescent and by walking very quickly he soon
came within hailing distance of Dudley, who was strolling along at his
ease, humming tunelessly.
"Hey, Big D!"


Dudley turned.
"Oh," he grunted. "It's you."
"How long have you been 'Big D' then?" said Harry.
"Shut it," snarled Dudley, turning away again.
"Cool name," said Harry, grinning and falling into step beside his
cousin. "But you'll always be Ickle Diddykins to me."
"I said, SHUT IT!" said Dudley, whose ham-like hands had curled
into fists.
"Don't the boys know that's what your mum calls you?"
"Shut your face."
"You don't tell her to shut her face. What about 'popkin' and
'Dinky Diddydums,' can I use them then?"
Dudley said nothing. The effort of keeping himself from hitting
Harry seemed to be demanding all his self-control.
"So who've you been beating up tonight?" Harry asked, his grin
fading. "Another ten-year-old? I know you did Mark Evans two nights
ago -"
"He was asking for it," snarled Dudley.
"Oh yeah?"
"He cheeked me."
"Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that's been taught to walk on
its hind legs? 'Cause that's not cheek, Dud, that's true . . ."
A muscle was twitching in Dudley's jaw. It gave Harry enormous
satisfaction to know how furious he was making Dudley; he felt as
though he was siphoning off his own frustration into his cousin, the
only outlet he had.
They turned right down the narrow alleyway where Harry had
first seen Sirius and which formed a shortcut between Magnolia
Crescent and Wisteria Walk. It was empty and much darker than the
streets it linked because there were no streetlamps. Their footsteps
were muffled between garage walls on one side and a high fence on
the other.


"Think you're a big man carrying that thing, don't you?" Dudley
said after a few seconds.
"What thing?"
"That - that thing you're hiding."
Harry grinned again.
"Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I s'pose if you were,
you wouldn't be able to walk and talk at the same time. . . ."
Harry pulled out his wand. He saw Dudley look sideways at it.
"You're not allowed," Dudley said at once. "I know you're not.
You'd get expelled from that freak school you go to."
"How d'you know they haven't changed the rules, Big D?"
"They haven't," said Dudley, though he didn't sound completely
convinced. Harry laughed softly.
"You haven't got the guts to take me on without that thing, have
you?" Dudley snarled.
"Whereas you just need four mates behind you before you can beat
up a ten-year-old. You know that boxing title you keep banging on
about? How old was your opponent? Seven? Eight?"
"He was sixteen for your information," snarled Dudley, "and he was
out cold for twenty minutes after I'd finished with him and he was
twice as heavy as you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had that thing
out -"
"Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle boxing champ frightened
of nasty Harry's wand?"
"Not this brave at night, are you?" sneered Dudley.
"This is night, Diddykins. That's what we call it when it goes all
dark like this."
"I mean when you're in bed!" Dudley snarled.
He had stopped walking. Harry stopped too, staring at his cousin.
From the little he could see of Dudley's large face, he was wearing a
strangely triumphant look.
"What d'you mean, I'm not brave in bed?" said Harry, completely


nonplussed. "What - am I supposed to be frightened of pillows or
something?"
"I heard you last night," said Dudley breathlessly. "Talking in your
sleep. Moaning."
"What d'you mean?" Harry said again, but there was a cold, plunging
sensation in his stomach. He had revisited the graveyard last night
in his dreams.
Dudley gave a harsh bark of laughter then adopted a high-pitched,
whimpering voice. " 'Don't kill Cedric! Don't kill Cedric!' Who's
Cedric - your boyfriend?"
"I - you're lying -" said Harry automatically. But his mouth had
gone dry. He knew Dudley wasn't lying - how else would he know
about Cedric?
" 'Dad! Help me, Dad! He's going to kill me, Dad! Boo-hoo!' "
"Shut up," said Harry quietly. "Shut up, Dudley, I'm warning you!"
" 'Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! He's killed
Cedric! Dad, help me! He's going to -' Don't you point that thing at
me!"
Dudley backed into the alley wall. Harry was pointing the wand directly
at Dudley's heart. Harry could feel fourteen years' hatred of
Dudley pounding in his veins - what wouldn't he give to strike now,
to jinx Dudley so thoroughly he'd have to crawl home like an insect,
struck dumb, sprouting feelers -
"Don't ever talk about that again," Harry snarled. "D'you understand
me?"
"Point that thing somewhere else!"
"I said, do you understand me?"
"Point it somewhere else!"
"DO YOU UNDERSTAND ME?"
"GET THAT THING AWAY FROM -"
Dudley gave an odd, shuddering gasp, as though he had been
doused in icy water.


Something had happened to the night. The star-strewn indigo sky
was suddenly pitch-black and lightless - the stars, the moon, the
misty streetlamps at either end of the alley had vanished. The distant
grumble of cars and the whisper of trees had gone. The balmy evening
was suddenly piercingly, bitingly cold. They were surrounded by total,
impenetrable, silent darkness, as though some giant hand had
dropped a thick, icy mantle over the entire alleyway, blinding them.
For a split second Harry thought he had done magic without
meaning to, despite the fact that he'd been resisting as hard as he
could - then his reason caught up with his senses - he didn't have
the power to turn off the stars. He turned his head this way and that,
trying to see something, but the darkness pressed on his eyes like a
weightless veil.
Dudley's terrified voice broke in Harry's ear.
"W-what are you d-doing? St-stop it!"
"I'm not doing anything! Shut up and don't move!"
"I c-can't see! I've g-gone blind! I -"
"I said shut up!"
Harry stood stock-still, turning his sightless eyes left and right. The
cold was so intense that he was shivering all over; goose bumps had
erupted up his arms, and the hairs on the back of his neck were standing
up - he opened his eyes to their fullest extent, staring blankly
around, unseeing . . .
It was impossible. . . . They couldn't be here. . . . Not in Little
Whinging . . . He strained his ears. . . . He would hear them before
he saw them. . . .
"I'll t-tell Dad!" Dudley whimpered. "W-where are you? What are
you d-do - ?"
"Will you shut up?" Harry hissed, "I'm trying to lis -"
But he fell silent. He had heard just the thing he had been
dreading.
There was something in the alleyway apart from themselves, someDUDLEY
DEMENTED

thing that was drawing long, hoarse, rattling breaths. Harry felt a horrible
jolt of dread as he stood trembling in the freezing air.
"C-cut it out! Stop doing it! I'll h-hit you, I swear I will!"
"Dudley, shut -"
WHAM!
A fist made contact with the side of Harry's head, lifting Harry off
his feet. Small white lights popped in front of Harry's eyes; for the second
time in an hour he felt as though his head had been cleaved in
two; next moment he had landed hard on the ground, and his wand
had flown out of his hand.
"You moron, Dudley!" Harry yelled, his eyes watering with pain, as
he scrambled to his hands and knees, now feeling around frantically in
the blackness. He heard Dudley blundering away, hitting the alley
fence, stumbling.
"DUDLEY, COME BACK! YOU'RE RUNNING RIGHT AT
IT!"
There was a horrible squealing yell, and Dudley's footsteps
stopped. At the same moment, Harry felt a creeping chill behind him
that could mean only one thing. There was more than one.
"DUDLEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHATEVER YOU
DO, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! Wand!" Harry muttered frantically,
his hands flying over the ground like spiders. "Where's - wand
- come on - Lumos!"
He said the spell automatically, desperate for light to help him in
his search - and to his disbelieving relief, light flared inches from his
right hand - the wand tip had ignited. Harry snatched it up, scrambled
to his feet, and turned around.
His stomach turned over.
A towering, hooded figure was gliding smoothly toward him,
hovering over the ground, no feet or face visible beneath its robes,
sucking on the night as it came.
Stumbling backward, Harry raised his wand.


"Expecto Patronum!"
A silvery wisp of vapor shot from the tip of the wand and the dementor
slowed, but the spell hadn't worked properly; tripping over his
feet, Harry retreated farther as the dementor bore down upon him,
panic fogging his brain - concentrate -
A pair of gray, slimy, scabbed hands slid from inside the dementor's
robes, reaching for him. A rushing noise filled Harry's ears.
"Expecto Patronum!"
His voice sounded dim and distant. . . . Another wisp of silver
smoke, feebler than the last, drifted from the wand - he couldn't do
it anymore, he couldn't work the spell -
There was laughter inside his own head, shrill, high-pitched laughter.
. . . He could smell the dementor's putrid, death-cold breath, filling
his own lungs, drowning him - Think . . . something happy. . . .
But there was no happiness in him. . . . The dementor's icy fingers
were closing on his throat - the high-pitched laughter was growing
louder and louder, and a voice spoke inside his head - "Bow to death,
Harry. . . . It might even be painless. . . . I would not know. . . . I have
never died. . . ."
He was never going to see Ron and Hermione again -
And their faces burst clearly into his mind as he fought for
breath -
"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"
An enormous silver stag erupted from the tip of Harry's wand; its
antlers caught the dementor in the place where the heart should have
been; it was thrown backward, weightless as darkness, and as the stag
charged, the dementor swooped away, batlike and defeated.
"THIS WAY!" Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling around, he
sprinted down the alleyway, holding the lit wand aloft. "DUDLEY?
DUDLEY!"
He had run barely a dozen steps when he reached them: Dudley
was curled on the ground, his arms clamped over his face; a second deDUDLEY
DEMENTED

mentor was crouching low over him, gripping his wrists in its slimy
hands, prizing them slowly, almost lovingly apart, lowering its hooded
head toward Dudley's face as though about to kiss him. . . .
"GET IT!" Harry bellowed, and with a rushing, roaring sound, the
silver stag he had conjured came galloping back past him. The dementor's
eyeless face was barely an inch from Dudley's when the silver
antlers caught it; the thing was thrown up into the air and, like its
fellow, it soared away and was absorbed into the darkness. The stag
cantered to the end of the alleyway and dissolved into silver mist.
Moon, stars, and streetlamps burst back into life. A warm breeze
swept the alleyway. Trees rustled in neighboring gardens and the mundane
rumble of cars in Magnolia Crescent filled the air again. Harry
stood quite still, all his senses vibrating, taking in the abrupt return to
normality. After a moment he became aware that his T-shirt was sticking
to him; he was drenched in sweat.
He could not believe what had just happened. Dementors here, in
Little Whinging . . .
Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and shaking.
Harry bent down to see whether he was in a fit state to stand up, but
then heard loud, running footsteps behind him; instinctively raising
his wand again, he spun on his heel to face the newcomer.
Mrs. Figg, their batty old neighbor, came panting into sight. Her
grizzled gray hair was escaping from its hairnet, a clanking string
shopping bag was swinging from her wrist, and her feet were halfway
out of her tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand hurriedly
out of sight, but -
"Don't put it away, idiot boy!" she shrieked. "What if there are
more of them around? Oh, I'm going to kill Mundungus Fletcher!"



hat?" said Harry blankly.
"He left!" said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. "Left to see
someone about a batch of cauldrons that fell off the back of a broom!
I told him I'd flay him alive if he went, and now look! Dementors! It's
just lucky I put Mr. Tibbies on the case! But we haven't got time to
stand around! Hurry, now, we've got to get you back! Oh, the trouble
this is going to cause! I will kill him!"
"But -"
The revelation that his batty old cat-obsessed neighbor knew what
dementors were was almost as big a shock to Harry as meeting two of
them down the alleyway. "You're - you're a witch?"
"I'm a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how on earth was
I supposed to help you fight off dementors? He left you completely
without cover when I warned him -"
"This bloke Mundungus has been following me? Hang on - it
was him! He Disapparated from the front of my house!"
"Yes, yes, yes, but luckily I'd stationed Mr. Tibbies under a car just
in case, and Mr. Tibbies came and warned me, but by the time I got
W


to your house you'd gone - and now - oh, what's Dumbledore going
to say? You!" she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the alley floor.
"Get your fat bottom off the ground, quick!"
"You know Dumbledore?" said Harry, staring at her.
"Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesn't know Dumbledore?
But come on - I'll be no help if they come back, I've never so much
as Transfigured a teabag -"
She stooped down, seized one of Dudley's massive arms in her wizened
hands, and tugged.
"Get up, you useless lump, get up!"
But Dudley either could not or would not move. He was still on
the ground, trembling and ashen-faced, his mouth shut very tight.
"I'll do it." Harry took hold of Dudley's arm and heaved: With an
enormous effort he managed to hoist Dudley to his feet. Dudley
seemed to be on the point of fainting: His small eyes were rolling in
their sockets and sweat was beading his face; the moment Harry let go
of him he swayed dangerously.
"Hurry up!" said Mrs. Figg hysterically.
Harry pulled one of Dudley's massive arms around his own shoulders
and dragged him toward the road, sagging slightly under his
weight. Mrs. Figg tottered along in front of them, peering anxiously
around the corner.
"Keep your wand out," she told Harry, as they entered Wisteria
Walk. "Never mind the Statute of Secrecy now, there's going to be hell
to pay anyway, we might as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk
about the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery . . . This was
exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of - what's that at the end of the
street? Oh, it's just Mr. Prentice. . . . Don't put your wand away, boy,
don't I keep telling you I'm no use?"
It was not easy to hold a wand steady and carry Dudley along at the
same time. Harry gave his cousin an impatient dig in the ribs, but
Dudley seemed to have lost all desire for independent movement. He


was slumped on Harry's shoulder, his large feet dragging along the
ground.
"Why didn't you tell me you're a Squib?" Harry asked Mrs. Figg,
panting with the effort to keep walking. "All those times I came round
your house - why didn't you say anything?"
"Dumbledore's orders. I was to keep an eye on you but not say anything,
you were too young. I'm sorry I gave you such a miserable time,
but the Dursleys would never have let you come if they'd thought you
enjoyed it. It wasn't easy, you know. . . . But oh my word," she said
tragically, wringing her hands once more, "when Dumbledore hears
about this - how could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be
on duty until midnight - where is he? How am I going to tell Dumbledore
what's happened, I can't Apparate -"
"I've got an owl, you can borrow her," Harry groaned, wondering
whether his spine was going to snap under Dudley's weight.
"Harry, you don't understand! Dumbledore will need to act as
quickly as possible, the Ministry have their own ways of detecting underage
magic, they'll know already, you mark my words -"
"But I was getting rid of dementors, I had to use magic - they're
going to be more worried what dementors were doing floating around
Wisteria Walk, surely?"
"Oh my dear, I wish it were so but I'm afraid - MUNDUNGUS
FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL YOU!"
There was a loud crack and a strong smell of mingled drink and
stale tobacco filled the air as a squat, unshaven man in a tattered overcoat
materialized right in front of them. He had short bandy legs, long
straggly ginger hair, and bloodshot baggy eyes that gave him the doleful
look of a basset hound; he was also clutching a silvery bundle that
Harry recognized at once as an Invisibility Cloak.
" 'S' up, Figgy?" he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to Harry and Dudley.
"What 'appened to staying undercover?"


"I'll give you undercover!" cried Mrs. Figg. "Dementors, you useless,
skiving sneak thief!"
"Dementors?" repeated Mundungus, aghast. "Dementors here?"
"Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!" shrieked
Mrs. Figg. "Dementors attacking the boy on your watch!"
"Blimey," said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. Figg to
Harry and back again. "Blimey, I . . ."
"And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn't I tell you not to go?
Didn't I ?"
"I - well, I -" Mundungus looked deeply uncomfortable. "It . . .
it was a very good business opportunity, see . . ."
Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dangled and
whacked Mundungus around the face and neck with it; judging by
the clanking noise it made it was full of cat food.
"Ouch - gerroff - gerroff, you mad old bat! Someone's gotta tell
Dumbledore!"
"Yes - they - have!" yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging the bag of
cat food at every bit of Mundungus she could reach. "And - it -
had - better - be - you - and - you - can - tell - him -
why - you - weren't - there - to - help!"
"Keep your 'airnet on!" said Mundungus, his arms over his head,
cowering. "I'm going, I'm going!"
And with another loud crack, he vanished.
"I hope Dumbledore murders him!" said Mrs. Figg furiously. "Now
come on, Harry, what are you waiting for?"
Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on pointing out
that he could barely walk under Dudley's bulk. He gave the semiconscious
Dudley a heave and staggered onward.
"I'll take you to the door," said Mrs. Figg, as they turned into Privet
Drive. "Just in case there are more of them around. . . . Oh my word,
what a catastrophe . . . and you had to fight them off yourself . . . and


Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing magic at all costs.
. . . Well, it's no good crying over spilled potion, I suppose . . . but the
cat's among the pixies now . . ."
"So," Harry panted, "Dumbledore's . . . been having . . . me
followed?"
"Of course he has," said Mrs. Figg impatiently. "Did you expect
him to let you wander around on your own after what happened in
June? Good Lord, boy, they told me you were intelligent. . . . Right
. . . get inside and stay there," she said as they reached number four. "I
expect someone will be in touch with you soon enough."
"What are you going to do?" asked Harry quickly.
"I'm going straight home," said Mrs. Figg, staring around the dark
street and shuddering. "I'll need to wait for more instructions. Just
stay in the house. Good night."
"Hang on, don't go yet! I want to know -"
But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet slippers flopping,
string bag clanking.
"Wait!" Harry shouted after her; he had a million questions to ask
anyone who was in contact with Dumbledore; but within seconds
Mrs. Figg was swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry readjusted
Dudley on his shoulder and made his slow, painful way up number
four's garden path.
The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back inside the waistband
of his jeans, rang the bell, and watched Aunt Petunia's outline
grow larger and larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the
front door.
"Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite - quite - Diddy,
what's the matter?"
Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out from under his
arm just in time. Dudley swayed for a moment on the spot, his face
pale green, then he opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the
doormat.


"DIDDY! Diddy, what's the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!"
Harry's uncle came galumphing out of the living room, walrus mustache
blowing hither and thither as it always did when he was agitated.
He hurried forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed
Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in the pool of sick.
"He's ill, Vernon!"
"What is it, son? What's happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you
something foreign for tea?"
"Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you been lying on
the ground?"
"Hang on - you haven't been mugged, have you, son?"
Aunt Petunia screamed.
"Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak
to Mummy! What did they do to you?"
In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed Harry, which
suited him perfectly. He managed to slip inside just before Uncle Vernon
slammed the door and while the Dursleys made their noisy
progress down the hall toward the kitchen, Harry moved carefully and
quietly toward the stairs.
"Who did it, son? Give us names. We'll get them, don't worry."
"Shh! He's trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell
Mummy!"
Harry's foot was on the bottommost stair when Dudley found his
voice.
"Him."
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced for the
explosion.
"BOY! COME HERE!"
With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry removed his foot
slowly from the stair and turned to follow the Dursleys.
The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal glitter after the
darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was ushering Dudley into a chair; he


was still very green and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing
in front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through tiny, narrowed
eyes.
"What have you done to my son?" he said in a menacing growl.
"Nothing," said Harry, knowing perfectly well that Uncle Vernon
wouldn't believe him.
"What did he do to you, Diddy?" Aunt Petunia said in a quavering
voice, now sponging sick from the front of Dudley's leather jacket.
"Was it - was it you-know-what, darling? Did he use - his thing?"
Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded.
"I didn't!" Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and
Uncle Vernon raised his fists. "I didn't do anything to him, it wasn't
me, it was -"
But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in through the
kitchen window. Narrowly missing the top of Uncle Vernon's head, it
soared across the kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it
was carrying in its beak at Harry's feet, and turned gracefully, the tips
of its wings just brushing the top of the fridge, then zoomed outside
again and off across the garden.
"OWLS!" bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in his temple
pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen window shut. "OWLS
AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS IN MY
HOUSE!"
But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and pulling out
the letter inside, his heart pounding somewhere in the region of his
Adam's apple.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that you performed the Patronus
Charm at twenty minutes past nine this evening
in a Muggle-inhabited area and in the presence of a Muggle.
The severity of this breach of the Decree for the ReasonA


able Restriction of Underage Sorcery has resulted in your expulsion
from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Ministry representatives will be calling at your place of residence
shortly to destroy your wand.
As you have already received an official warning for a
previous offense under section 13 of the International Confederation
of Wizards' Statute of Secrecy, we regret to inform
you that your presence is required at a disciplinary  at
 at 9 a.m. on August 12th.
Hoping you are well,
Yours sincerely,
improper use of magic office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read the letter through twice. He was only vaguely aware of
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia talking in the vicinity. Inside his
head, all was icy and numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness
like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from Hogwarts. It was all
over. He was never going back.
He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was purple-faced,
shouting, his fists still raised; Aunt Petunia had her arms around Dudley,
who was retching again.
Harry's temporarily stupefied brain seemed to reawaken. Ministry
representatives will be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy
your wand. There was only one thing for it. He would have to run -
now. Where he was going to go, Harry didn't know, but he was certain
of one thing: At Hogwarts or outside it, he needed his wand. In an
almost dreamlike state, he pulled his wand out and turned to leave the
kitchen.


"Where d'you think you're going?" yelled Uncle Vernon. When
Harry didn't reply, he pounded across the kitchen to block the doorway
into the hall. "I haven't finished with you, boy!"
"Get out of the way," said Harry quietly.
"You're going to stay here and explain how my son -"
"If you don't get out of the way I'm going to jinx you," said Harry,
raising the wand.
"You can't pull that one on me!" snarled Uncle Vernon. "I know
you're not allowed to use it outside that madhouse you call a school!"
"The madhouse has chucked me out," said Harry. "So I can do
whatever I like. You've got three seconds. One - two -"
A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen; Aunt Petunia screamed,
Uncle Vernon yelled and ducked, but for the third time that night
Harry was staring for the source of a disturbance he had not made. He
spotted it at once: A dazed and ruffled-looking barn owl was sitting
outside on the kitchen sill, having just collided with the closed
window.
Ignoring Uncle Vernon's anguished yell of "OWLS!" Harry crossed
the room at a run and wrenched the window open again. The owl
stuck out its leg, to which a small roll of parchment was tied, shook its
feathers, and took off the moment Harry had pulled off the letter.
Hands shaking, Harry unfurled the second message, which was written
very hastily and blotchily in black ink.
Harry -
Dumbledore's just arrived at the Ministry, and he's trying to
sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND
UNCLE'S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANY MORE MAGIC.
DO NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND.


Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out. . . . What did that mean?
How much power did Dumbledore have to override the Ministry of
Magic? Was there a chance that he might be allowed back to Hogwarts,
then? A small shoot of hope burgeoned in Harry's chest, almost
immediately strangled by panic - how was he supposed to refuse to
surrender his wand without doing magic? He'd have to duel with the
Ministry representatives, and if he did that, he'd be lucky to escape
Azkaban, let alone expulsion.
His mind was racing. . . . He could run for it and risk being captured
by the Ministry, or stay put and wait for them to find him here.
He was much more tempted by the former course, but he knew that
Mr. Weasley had his best interests at heart . . . and, after all, Dumbledore
had sorted out much worse than this before. . . .
"Right," Harry said, "I've changed my mind, I'm staying."
He flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced Dudley and
Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared taken aback at his abrupt
change of mind. Aunt Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon.
The vein in Uncle Vernon's purple temple was throbbing worse than
ever.
"Who are all these ruddy owls from?" he growled.
"The first one was from , expelling me," said
Harry calmly; he was straining his ears to catch noises outside in case
the Ministry representatives were approaching, and it was easier and
quieter to answer Uncle Vernon's questions than to have him start raging
and bellowing. "The second one was from my friend Ron's dad, he
works at the Ministry."
"Ministry of Magic?" bellowed Uncle Vernon. "People like you in
government? Oh this explains everything, everything, no wonder the
country's going to the dogs. . . ."
When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at him, then
spat, "And why have you been expelled?"


"Because I did magic."
"AHA!" roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down on the top of
the fridge, which sprang open; several of Dudley's low-fat snacks toppled
out and burst on the floor. "So you admit it! What did you do to
Dudley?"
"Nothing," said Harry, slightly less calmly. "That wasn't me -"
"Was," muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle Vernon and
Aunt Petunia instantly made flapping gestures at Harry to quiet him
while they both bent low over Dudley.
"Go on, son," said Uncle Vernon, "what did he do?"
"Tell us, darling," whispered Aunt Petunia.
"Pointed his wand at me," Dudley mumbled.
"Yeah, I did, but I didn't use -" Harry began angrily, but . . .
"SHUT UP!" roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in unison.
"Go on, son," repeated Uncle Vernon, mustache blowing about
furiously.
"All dark," Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. "Everything dark.
And then I h-heard . . . things. Inside m-my head . . ."
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of utter horror.
If their least favorite thing in the world was magic, closely followed
by neighbors who cheated more than they did on the hosepipe ban,
people who heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten. They obviously
thought Dudley was losing his mind.
"What sort of things did you hear, popkin?" breathed Aunt Petunia,
very white-faced and with tears in her eyes.
But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He shuddered again and
shook his large blond head, and despite the sense of numb dread that
had settled on Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt a certain
curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive the worst moments of
their life. . . . What would spoiled, pampered, bullying Dudley have
been forced to hear?
"How come you fell over, son?" said Uncle Vernon in an unnatuA


rally quiet voice, the kind of voice he would adopt at the bedside of a
very ill person.
"T-tripped," said Dudley shakily. "And then -"
He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood: Dudley was remembering
the clammy cold that filled the lungs as hope and happiness
were sucked out of you.
"Horrible," croaked Dudley. "Cold. Really cold."
"Okay," said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt
Petunia laid an anxious hand on Dudley's forehead to feel his temperature.
"What happened then, Dudders?"
"Felt . . . felt . . . felt . . . as if. . . as if . . ."
"As if you'd never be happy again," Harry supplied tonelessly.
"Yes," Dudley whispered, still trembling.
"So," said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and considerable
volume as he straightened up. "So you put some crackpot spell on my
son so he'd hear voices and believe he was - was doomed to misery,
or something, did you?"
"How many times do I have to tell you?" said Harry, temper and
voice rising together. "It wasn't me! It was a couple of dementors!"
"A couple of- what's this codswallop?"
"De - men - tors," said Harry slowly and clearly. "Two of
them."
"And what the ruddy hell are dementors?"
"They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban," said Aunt Petunia.
Two seconds' ringing silence followed these words and then Aunt
Petunia clapped her hand over her mouth as though she had let slip a
disgusting swear word. Uncle Vernon was goggling at her. Harry's
brain reeled. Mrs. Figg was one thing - but Aunt Petunia?
"How d'you know that?" he asked her, astonished.
Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She glanced at
Uncle Vernon in fearful apology, then lowered her hand slightly to reveal
her horsey teeth.


"I heard - that awful boy - telling her about them - years ago,"
she said jerkily.
"If you mean my mum and dad, why don't you use their names?"
said Harry loudly, but Aunt Petunia ignored him. She seemed horribly
flustered.
Harry was stunned. Except for one outburst years ago, in the
course of which Aunt Petunia had screamed that Harry's mother had
been a freak, he had never heard her mention her sister. He was astounded
that she had remembered this scrap of information about the
magical world for so long, when she usually put all her energies into
pretending it didn't exist.
Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, opened it once
more, shut it, then, apparently struggling to remember how to talk,
opened it for a third time and croaked, "So - so - they - er -
they - er - they actually exist, do they - er - dementy-whatsits?"
Aunt Petunia nodded.
Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to Harry as if
hoping somebody was going to shout "April Fool!" When nobody did,
he opened his mouth yet again, but was spared the struggle to find
more words by the arrival of the third owl of the evening, which
zoomed through the still-open window like a feathery cannonball and
landed with a clatter on the kitchen table, causing all three of the
Dursleys to jump with fright. Harry tore a second official-looking envelope
from the owl's beak and ripped it open as the owl swooped
back out into the night.
"Enough - effing - owls . . ." muttered Uncle Vernon distractedly,
stomping over to the window and slamming it shut again.
Dear Mr. Potter,
Further to our letter of approximately twenty minutes
ago,  has revised its decision to destroy
your wand forthwith. You may retain your wand until your


disciplinary  on 12th August, at which time an official
decision will be taken.
Following discussions with the Headmaster of Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the Ministry has agreed
that the question of your expulsion will also be decided at that
time. You should therefore consider yourself suspended from
school pending further inquiries.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
improper use of magic office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read this letter through three times in quick succession. The
miserable knot in his chest loosened slightly at the thought that he
was not definitely expelled, though his fears were by no means banished.
Everything seemed to hang on this  on the twelfth of
August.
"Well?" said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his surroundings.
"What now? Have they sentenced you to anything? Do your lot have
the death penalty?" he added as a hopeful afterthought.
"I've got to go to a ," said Harry.
"And they'll sentence you there?"
"I suppose so."
"I won't give up hope, then," said Uncle Vernon nastily.
"Well, if that's all," said Harry, getting to his feet. He was desperate
to be alone, to think, perhaps to send a letter to Ron, Hermione, or
Sirius.
"NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!" bellowed Uncle Vernon.
"SIT BACK DOWN!"


"What now?" said Harry impatiently.
"DUDLEY!" roared Uncle Vernon. "I want to know exactly what
happened to my son!"
"FINE!" yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold sparks shot
out of the end of his wand, still clutched in his hand. All three Dursleys
flinched, looking terrified.
"Dudley and I were in the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent
and Wisteria Walk," said Harry, speaking fast, fighting to control his
temper. "Dudley thought he'd be smart with me, I pulled out my
wand but didn't use it. Then two dementors turned up -"
"But what ARE dementoids?" asked Uncle Vernon furiously.
"What do they DO?"
"I told you - they suck all the happiness out of you," said Harry,
"and if they get the chance, they kiss you -"
"Kiss you?" said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping slightly. "Kiss you?"
"It's what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth."
Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream.
"His soul? They didn't take - he's still got his -"
She seized Dudley by the shoulders and shook him, as though testing
to see whether she could hear his soul rattling around inside him.
"Of course they didn't get his soul, you'd know if they had," said
Harry, exasperated.
"Fought 'em off, did you, son?" said Uncle Vernon loudly, with the
appearance of a man struggling to bring the conversation back onto a
plane he understood. "Gave 'em the old one, did you?"
"You can't give a dementor the old one," said Harry through
clenched teeth.
"Why's he all right, then?" blustered Uncle Vernon. "Why isn't he
all empty, then?"
"Because I used the Patronus -"
WHOOSH. With a clattering, a whirring of wings, and a soft fall of
dust, a fourth owl came shooting out of the kitchen fireplace.


"FOR GOD'S SAKE!" roared Uncle Vernon, pulling great clumps
of hair out of his mustache, something he hadn't been driven to in a
long time. "I WILL NOT HAVE OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT
TOLERATE THIS, I TELL YOU!"
But Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment from the owl's
leg. He was so convinced that this letter had to be from Dumbledore,
explaining everything - the dementors, Mrs. Figg, what the Ministry
was up to, how he, Dumbledore, intended to sort everything
out - that for the first time in his life he was disappointed to see Sirius's
handwriting. Ignoring Uncle Vernon's ongoing rant about owls
and narrowing his eyes against a second cloud of dust as the most recent
owl took off back up the chimney, Harry read Sirius's message.
Arthur's just told us what's happened.
Don't leave the house again, whatever you do.
Harry found this such an inadequate response to everything that
had happened tonight that he turned the piece of parchment over,
looking for the rest of the letter, but there was nothing there.
And now his temper was rising again. Wasn't anybody going to say
"well done" for fighting off two dementors single-handedly? Both Mr.
Weasley and Sirius were acting as though he'd misbehaved and they
were saving their tellings-off until they could ascertain how much
damage had been done.
"- a peck, I mean, pack of owls shooting in and out of my house
and I won't have it, boy, I won't -"
"I can't stop the owls coming," Harry snapped, crushing Sirius's letter
in his fist.
"I want the truth about what happened tonight!" barked Uncle
Vernon. "If it was demenders who hurt Dudley, how come you've
been expelled? You did you-know-what, you've admitted it!"
Harry took a deep, steadying breath. His head was beginning to


ache again. He wanted more than anything to get out of the kitchen,
away from the Dursleys.
"I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the dementors," he said,
forcing himself to remain calm. "It's the only thing that works against
them."
"But what were dementoids doing in Little Whinging?" said Uncle
Vernon in tones of outrage.
"Couldn't tell you," said Harry wearily. "No idea."
His head was pounding in the glare of the strip lighting now. His
anger was ebbing away. He felt drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were
all staring at him.
"It's you," said Uncle Vernon forcefully. "It's got something to do
with you, boy, I know it. Why else would they turn up here? Why else
would they be down that alleyway? You've got to be the only - the
only -" Evidently he couldn't bring himself to say the word "wizard."
"The only you-know-what for miles."
"I don't know why they were here. . . ."
But at these words of Uncle Vernon's, Harry's exhausted brain
ground back into action. Why had the dementors come to Little
Whinging? How could it be coincidence that they had arrived in the
alleyway where Harry was? Had they been sent? Had the Ministry of
Magic lost control of the dementors, had they deserted Azkaban and
joined Voldemort, as Dumbledore had predicted they would?
"These demembers guard some weirdos' prison?" said Uncle Vernon,
lumbering in the wake of Harry's train of thought.
"Yes," said Harry.
If only his head would stop hurting, if only he could just leave the
kitchen and get to his dark bedroom and think. . . .
"Oho! They were coming to arrest you!" said Uncle Vernon, with
the triumphant air of a man reaching an unassailable conclusion.
"That's it, isn't it, boy? You're on the run from the law!"


"Of course I'm not," said Harry, shaking his head as though to
scare off a fly, his mind racing now.
"Then why - ?"
"He must have sent them," said Harry quietly, more to himself
than to Uncle Vernon.
"What's that? Who must have sent them?"
"Lord Voldemort," said Harry.
He registered dimly how strange it was that the Dursleys, who
flinched, winced, and squawked if they heard words like "wizard,"
"magic," or "wand," could hear the name of the most evil wizard of all
time without the slightest tremor.
"Lord - hang on," said Uncle Vernon, his face screwed up, a look
of dawning comprehension in his piggy eyes. "I've heard that name
. . . that was the one who . . ."
"Murdered my parents, yes," Harry said.
"But he's gone," said Uncle Vernon impatiently, without the slightest
sign that the murder of Harry's parents might be a painful topic to
anybody. "That giant bloke said so. He's gone."
"He's back," said Harry heavily.
It felt very strange to be standing here in Aunt Petunia's surgically
clean kitchen, beside the top-of-the-range fridge and the wide-screen
television, and talking calmly of Lord Voldemort to Uncle Vernon.
The arrival of the dementors in Little Whinging seemed to have
caused a breach in the great, invisible wall that divided the relentlessly
non-magical world of Privet Drive and the world beyond. Harry's two
lives had somehow become fused and everything had been turned upside
down: The Dursleys were asking for details about the magical
world and Mrs. Figg knew Albus Dumbledore; dementors were soaring
around Little Whinging and he might never go back to Hogwarts.
Harry's head throbbed more painfully.
"Back?" whispered Aunt Petunia.


She was looking at Harry as she had never looked at him before.
And all of a sudden, for the very first time in his life, Harry fully appreciated
that Aunt Petunia was his mother's sister. He could not have
said why this hit him so very powerfully at this moment. All he knew
was that he was not the only person in the room who had an inkling
of what Lord Voldemort being back might mean. Aunt Petunia had
never in her life looked at him like that before. Her large, pale eyes (so
unlike her sister's) were not narrowed in dislike or anger: They were
wide and fearful. The furious pretense that Aunt Petunia had maintained
all Harry's life - that there was no magic and no world other
than the world she inhabited with Uncle Vernon - seemed to have
fallen away.
"Yes," Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia now. "He came
back a month ago. I saw him."
Her hands found Dudley's massive leather-clad shoulders and
clutched them.
"Hang on," said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife to Harry and
back again, apparently dazed and confused by the unprecedented understanding
that seemed to have sprung up between them. "Hang on.
This Lord Voldything's back, you say."
"Yes."
"The one who murdered your parents."
"Yes."
"And now he's sending dismembers after you?"
"Looks like it," said Harry.
"I see," said Uncle Vernon, looking from his white-faced wife to
Harry and hitching up his trousers. He seemed to be swelling, his
great purple face stretching before Harry's eyes. "Well, that settles it,"
he said, his shirt front straining as he inflated himself, "you can get out
of this house, boy!"
"What?" said Harry.
"You heard me - OUT!" Uncle Vernon bellowed, and even Aunt


Petunia and Dudley jumped. "OUT! OUT! I should've done it years
ago! Owls treating the place like a rest home, puddings exploding, half
the lounge destroyed, Dudley's tail, Marge bobbing around on the
ceiling, and that flying Ford Anglia - OUT! OUT! You've had it!
You're history! You're not staying here if some loony's after you, you're
not endangering my wife and son, you're not bringing trouble down
on us, if you're going the same way as your useless parents, I've had it!
OUT!"
Harry stood rooted to the spot. The letters from the Ministry,
Mr. Weasley, and Sirius were crushed in his left hand. Don't leave the
house again, whatever you do. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND
UNCLE'S HOUSE.
"You heard me!" said Uncle Vernon, bending forward now, so that
his massive purple face came closer to Harry's, so that Harry actually
felt flecks of spit hit his face. "Get going! You were all keen to leave
half an hour ago! I'm right behind you! Get out and never darken our
doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in the first place I don't know.
Marge was right, it should have been the orphanage, we were too
damn soft for our own good, thought we could squash it out of you,
thought we could turn you normal, but you've been rotten from the
beginning, and I've had enough - OWLS!"
The fifth owl zoomed down the chimney so fast it actually hit the
floor before zooming into the air again with a loud screech. Harry
raised his hand to seize the letter, which was in a scarlet envelope, but
it soared straight over his head, flying directly at Aunt Petunia, who let
out a scream and ducked, her arms over her face. The owl dropped the
red envelope on her head, turned, and flew straight up the chimney
again.
Harry darted forward to pick up the letter, but Aunt Petunia beat
him to it.
"You can open it if you like," said Harry, "but I'll hear what it says
anyway. That's a Howler."


"Let go of it, Petunia!" roared Uncle Vernon. "Don't touch it, it
could be dangerous!"
"It's addressed to me," said Aunt Petunia in a shaking voice. "It's
addressed to me, Vernon, look! Mrs. Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen,
Number Four, Privet Drive -"
She caught her breath, horrified. The red envelope had begun to
smoke.
"Open it!" Harry urged her. "Get it over with! It'll happen
anyway -"
"No -"
Aunt Petunia's hand was trembling. She looked wildly around the
kitchen as though looking for an escape route, but too late - the envelope
burst into flames. Aunt Petunia screamed and dropped it.
An awful voice filled the kitchen, echoing in the confined space, issuing
from the burning letter on the table.
"REMEMBER MY LAST, PETUNIA."
Aunt Petunia looked as though she might faint. She sank into the
chair beside Dudley, her face in her hands. The remains of the envelope
smoldered into ash in the silence.
"What is this?" Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. "What - I don't -
Petunia?"
Aunt Petunia said nothing. Dudley was staring stupidly at his
mother, his mouth hanging open. The silence spiraled horribly. Harry
was watching his aunt, utterly bewildered, his head throbbing fit to
burst.
"Petunia, dear?" said Uncle Vernon timidly. "P-Petunia?"
She raised her head. She was still trembling. She swallowed.
"The boy - the boy will have to stay, Vernon," she said weakly.
"W-what?"


"He stays," she said. She was not looking at Harry. She got to her
feet again.
"He . . . but Petunia . . ."
"If we throw him out, the neighbors will talk," she said. She was regaining
her usual brisk, snappish manner rapidly, though she was still
very pale. "They'll ask awkward questions, they'll want to know where
he's gone. We'll have to keep him."
Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tire.
"But Petunia, dear -"
Aunt Petunia ignored him. She turned to Harry.
"You're to stay in your room," she said. "You're not to leave the
house. Now get to bed."
Harry didn't move.
"Who was that Howler from?"
"Don't ask questions," Aunt Petunia snapped.
"Are you in touch with wizards?"
"I told you to get to bed!"
"What did it mean? Remember the last what?"
"Go to bed!"
"How come - ?"
"YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GET TO BED!"



've just been attacked by dementors and I might be expelled from
Hogwarts. I want to know what's going on and when I'm going to get
out of here.
Harry copied these words onto three separate pieces of parchment
the moment he reached the desk in his dark bedroom. He addressed
the first to Sirius, the second to Ron, and the third to Hermione. His
owl, Hedwig, was off hunting; her cage stood empty on the desk.
Harry paced the bedroom waiting for her to come back, his head
pounding, his brain too busy for sleep even though his eyes stung and
itched with tiredness. His back ached from carrying Dudley home,
and the two lumps on his head where the window and Dudley had hit
him were throbbing painfully.
Up and down he paced, consumed with anger and frustration,
grinding his teeth and clenching his fists, casting angry looks out at
the empty, star-strewn sky every time he passed the window. Dementors
sent to get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundungus Fletcher tailing him
in secret, then suspension from Hogwarts and a  at the Ministry
of Magic - and still no one was telling him what was going on.
I


And what, what, had that Howler been about? Whose voice had
echoed so horribly, so menacingly, through the kitchen?
Why was he still trapped here without information? Why was
everyone treating him like some naughty kid? Don't do any more
magic, stay in the house. . . .
He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, but far from relieving his
anger he felt worse, as he now had a sharp pain in his toe to deal with
in addition to the pain in the rest of his body.
Just as he limped past the window, Hedwig soared through it with
a soft rustle of wings like a small ghost.
"About time!" Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on top of her
cage. "You can put that down, I've got work for you!"
Hedwig's large round amber eyes gazed reproachfully at him over
the dead frog clamped in her beak.
"Come here," said Harry, picking up the three small rolls of parchment
and a leather thong and tying the scrolls to her scaly leg. "Take
these straight to Sirius, Ron, and Hermione and don't come back here
without good long replies. Keep pecking them till they've written
decent-length answers if you've got to. Understand?"
Hedwig gave a muffled hooting noise, beak still full of frog.
"Get going, then," said Harry.
She took off immediately. The moment she'd gone, Harry threw
himself down onto his bed without undressing and stared at the dark
ceiling. In addition to every other miserable feeling, he now felt guilty
that he'd been irritable with Hedwig; she was the only friend he had at
number four, Privet Drive. But he'd make it up to her when she came
back with Sirius's, Ron's, and Hermione's answers.
They were bound to write back quickly; they couldn't possibly ignore
a dementor attack. He'd probably wake up tomorrow to three fat
letters full of sympathy and plans for his immediate removal to the
Burrow. And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him, stifling
all further thought.



But Hedwig didn't return next morning. Harry spent the day in his
bedroom, leaving it only to go to the bathroom. Three times that day
Aunt Petunia shoved food into his room through the cat flap Uncle
Vernon had installed three summers ago. Every time Harry heard her
approaching he tried to question her about the Howler, but he might
as well have interrogated the doorknob for all the answers he got.
Otherwise the Dursleys kept well clear of his bedroom. Harry couldn't
see the point of forcing his company on them; another row would
achieve nothing except perhaps making him so angry he'd perform
more illegal magic.
So it went on for three whole days. Harry was filled alternately with
restless energy that made him unable to settle to anything, during
which he paced his bedroom again, furious at the whole lot of them
for leaving him to stew in this mess, and with a lethargy so complete
that he could lie on his bed for an hour at a time, staring dazedly into
space, aching with dread at the thought of the Ministry .
What if they ruled against him? What if he was expelled and his
wand was snapped in half? What would he do, where would he go?
He could not return to living full-time with the Dursleys, not now
that he knew the other world, the one to which he really belonged.
. . . Was it possible that he might be able to move into Sirius's house,
as Sirius had suggested a year ago, before he had been forced to flee
from the Ministry himself? Would he be allowed to live there alone,
given that he was still underage? Or would the matter of where he
went next be decided for him; had his breach of the International
Statute of Secrecy been severe enough to land him in a cell in Azkaban?
Whenever this thought occurred, Harry invariably slid off his
bed and began pacing again.
On the fourth night after Hedwig's departure Harry was lying in
one of his apathetic phases, staring at the ceiling, his exhausted mind


quite blank, when his uncle entered his bedroom. Harry looked
slowly around at him. Uncle Vernon was wearing his best suit and an
expression of enormous smugness.
"We're going out," he said.
"Sorry?"
"We - that is to say, your aunt, Dudley, and I - are going out."
"Fine," said Harry dully, looking back at the ceiling.
"You are not to leave your bedroom while we are away."
"Okay."
"You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any of our
possessions."
"Right."
"You are not to steal food from the fridge."
"Okay."
"I am going to lock your door."
"You do that."
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, clearly suspicious of this lack of argument,
then stomped out of the room and closed the door behind
him. Harry heard the key turn in the lock and Uncle Vernon's footsteps
walking heavily down the stairs. A few minutes later he heard the
slamming of car doors, the rumble of an engine, and the unmistakable
sound of the car sweeping out of the drive.
Harry had no particular feeling about the Dursleys leaving. It made
no difference to him whether they were in the house or not. He could
not even summon the energy to get up and turn on his bedroom light.
The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay listening to the
night sounds through the window he kept open all the time, waiting
for the blessed moment when Hedwig returned.
The empty house creaked around him. The pipes gurgled. Harry
lay there in a kind of stupor, thinking of nothing, suspended in
misery.
And then, quite distinctly, he heard a crash in the kitchen below.


He sat bolt upright, listening intently. The Dursleys couldn't be
back, it was much too soon, and in any case he hadn't heard their car.
There was silence for a few seconds, and then he heard voices.
Burglars, he thought, sliding off the bed onto his feet - but a split
second later it occurred to him that burglars would keep their voices
down, and whoever was moving around in the kitchen was certainly
not troubling to do so.
He snatched up his wand from his bedside table and stood facing
his bedroom door, listening with all his might. Next moment he
jumped as the lock gave a loud click and his door swung open.
Harry stood motionless, staring through the open door at the dark
upstairs landing, straining his ears for further sounds, but none came.
He hesitated for a moment and then moved swiftly and silently out of
his room to the head of the stairs.
His heart shot upward into his throat. There were people standing
in the shadowy hall below, silhouetted against the streetlight glowing
through the glass door; eight or nine of them, all, as far as he could
see, looking up at him.
"Lower your wand, boy, before you take someone's eye out," said a
low, growling voice.
Harry's heart was thumping uncontrollably. He knew that voice,
but he did not lower his wand.
"Professor Moody?" he said uncertainly.
"I don't know so much about 'Professor,' " growled the voice, "never
got round to much teaching, did I? Get down here, we want to see you
properly."
Harry lowered his wand slightly but did not relax his grip on it, nor
did he move. He had very good reason to be suspicious. He had recently
spent nine months in what he had thought was Mad-Eye
Moody's company only to find out that it wasn't Moody at all, but an
impostor; an impostor, moreover, who had tried to kill Harry before


being unmasked. But before he could make a decision about what to
do next, a second, slightly hoarse voice floated upstairs.
"It's all right, Harry. We've come to take you away."
Harry's heart leapt. He knew that voice too, though he hadn't
heard it for more than a year.
"P-Professor Lupin?" he said disbelievingly. "Is that you?"
"Why are we all standing in the dark?" said a third voice, this one
completely unfamiliar, a woman's. "Lumos."
A wand tip flared, illuminating the hall with magical light. Harry
blinked. The people below were crowded around the foot of the stairs,
gazing intently up at him, some craning their heads for a better look.
Remus Lupin stood nearest to him. Though still quite young,
Lupin looked tired and rather ill; he had more gray hair than when
Harry had said good-bye to him, and his robes were more patched
and shabbier than ever. Nevertheless, he was smiling broadly at Harry,
who tried to smile back through his shock.
"Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would," said the witch who
was holding her lit wand aloft. She looked the youngest there; she had
a pale heart-shaped face, dark twinkling eyes, and short spiky hair that
was a violent shade of violet. "Wotcher, Harry!"
"Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus," said a bald black wizard
standing farthest back; he had a deep, slow voice and wore a single
gold hoop in his ear. "He looks exactly like James."
"Except the eyes," said a wheezy-voiced, silver-haired wizard at the
back. "Lily's eyes."
Mad-Eye Moody, who had long grizzled gray hair and a large
chunk missing from his nose, was squinting suspiciously at Harry
through his mismatched eyes. One of the eyes was small, dark, and
beady, the other large, round, and electric blue - the magical eye that
could see through walls, doors, and the back of Moody's own head.
"Are you quite sure it's him, Lupin?" he growled. "It'd be a nice


lookout if we bring back some Death Eater impersonating him. We
ought to ask him something only the real Potter would know. Unless
anyone brought any Veritaserum?"
"Harry, what form does your Patronus take?" said Lupin.
"A stag," said Harry nervously.
"That's him, Mad-Eye," said Lupin.
Harry descended the stairs, very conscious of everybody still staring
at him, stowing his wand into the back pocket of his jeans as he came.
"Don't put your wand there, boy!" roared Moody. "What if it ignited?
Better wizards than you have lost buttocks, you know!"
"Who d'you know who's lost a buttock?" the violet-haired woman
asked Mad-Eye interestedly.
"Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your back
pocket!" growled Mad-Eye. "Elementary wand safety, nobody bothers
about it anymore. . . ." He stumped off toward the kitchen. "And I saw
that," he added irritably, as the woman rolled her eyes at the ceiling.
Lupin held out his hand and shook Harry's.
"How are you?" he asked, looking at Harry closely.
"F-fine . . ."
Harry could hardly believe this was real. Four weeks with nothing,
not the tiniest hint of a plan to remove him from Privet Drive, and
suddenly a whole bunch of wizards was standing matter-of-factly in
the house as though this were a long-standing arrangement. He
glanced at the people surrounding Lupin; they were still gazing avidly
at him. He felt very conscious of the fact that he had not combed his
hair for four days.
"I'm - you're really lucky the Dursleys are out . . ." he mumbled.
"Lucky, ha!" said the violet-haired woman. "It was me that lured
them out of the way. Sent a letter by Muggle post telling them they'd
been short-listed for the All-England Best-Kept Suburban Lawn
Competition. They're heading off to the prize-giving right now. . . .
Or they think they are."


Harry had a fleeting vision of Uncle Vernon's face when he realized
there was no All-England Best-Kept Suburban Lawn Competition.
"We are leaving, aren't we?" he asked. "Soon?"
"Almost at once," said Lupin, "we're just waiting for the all-clear."
"Where are we going? The Burrow?" Harry asked hopefully.
"Not the Burrow, no," said Lupin, motioning Harry toward the
kitchen; the little knot of wizards followed, all still eyeing Harry curiously.
"Too risky. We've set up headquarters somewhere undetectable.
It's taken a while. . . ."
Mad-Eye Moody was now sitting at the kitchen table swigging
from a hip flask, his magical eye spinning in all directions, taking in
the Dursleys' many labor-saving appliances.
"This is Alastor Moody, Harry," Lupin continued, pointing toward
Moody.
"Yeah, I know," said Harry uncomfortably; it felt odd to be introduced
to somebody he'd thought he'd known for a year.
"And this is Nymphadora -"
"Don't call me Nymphadora, Remus," said the young witch with a
shudder. "It's Tonks."
"- Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to be known by her surname
only," finished Lupin.
"So would you if your fool of a mother had called you 'Nymphadora,'
" muttered Tonks.
"And this is Kingsley Shacklebolt" - he indicated the tall black
wizard, who bowed - "Elphias Doge" - the wheezy-voiced wizard
nodded - "Dedalus Diggle -"
"We've met before," squeaked the excitable Diggle, dropping his
top hat.
"- Emmeline Vance" - a stately looking witch in an emeraldgreen
shawl inclined her head - "Sturgis Podmore" - a square-jawed
wizard with thick, straw-colored hair winked - "and Hestia Jones." A
pink-cheeked, black-haired witch waved from next to the toaster.


Harry inclined his head awkwardly at each of them as they were introduced.
He wished they would look at something other than him; it
was as though he had suddenly been ushered onstage. He also wondered
why so many of them were there.
"A surprising number of people volunteered to come and get you,"
said Lupin, as though he had read Harry's mind; the corners of his
mouth twitched slightly.
"Yeah, well, the more the better," said Moody darkly. "We're your
guard, Potter."
"We're just waiting for the signal to tell us it's safe to set off," said
Lupin, glancing out of the kitchen window. "We've got about fifteen
minutes."
"Very clean, aren't they, these Muggles?" said the witch called
Tonks, who was looking around the kitchen with great interest. "My
dad's Muggle-born and he's a right old slob. I suppose it varies, just
like with wizards?"
"Er - yeah," said Harry. "Look" - he turned back to Lupin -
"what's going on, I haven't heard anything from anyone, what's Vol - ?"
Several of the witches and wizards made odd hissing noises;
Dedalus Diggle dropped his hat again, and Moody growled, "Shut up!"
"What?" said Harry.
"We're not discussing anything here, it's too risky," said Moody,
turning his normal eye on Harry; his magical eye remained pointing
up at the ceiling. "Damn it," he added angrily, putting a hand up to
the magical eye, "it keeps sticking - ever since that scum wore it -"
And with a nasty squelching sound much like a plunger being
pulled from a sink, he popped out his eye.
"Mad-Eye, you do know that's disgusting, don't you?" said Tonks
conversationally.
"Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry?" asked Moody.
Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean glass, and filled it


with water at the sink, still watched eagerly by the band of wizards.
Their relentless staring was starting to annoy him.
"Cheers," said Moody, when Harry handed him the glass. He
dropped the magical eyeball into the water and prodded it up and
down; the eye whizzed around, staring at them all in turn. "I want
three-hundred-andty degrees visibility on the return journey."
"How're we getting - wherever we're going?" Harry asked.
"Brooms," said Lupin. "Only way. You're too young to Apparate,
they'll be watching the Floo Network, and it's more than our life's
worth to set up an unauthorized Portkey."
"Remus says you're a good flier," said Kingsley Shacklebolt in his
deep voice.
"He's excellent," said Lupin, who was checking his watch. "Anyway,
you'd better go and get packed, Harry, we want to be ready to go
when the signal comes."
"I'll come and help you," said Tonks brightly.
She followed Harry back into the hall and up the stairs, looking
around with much curiosity and interest.
"Funny place," she said, "it's a bit too clean, d'you know what I
mean? Bit unnatural. Oh, this is better," she added, as they entered
Harry's bedroom and he turned on the light.
His room was certainly much messier than the rest of the house.
Confined to it for four days in a very bad mood, Harry had not bothered
tidying up after himself. Most of the books he owned were strewn
over the floor where he'd tried to distract himself with each in turn and
thrown it aside. Hedwig's cage needed cleaning out and was starting to
smell, and his trunk lay open, revealing a jumbled mixture of Muggle
clothes and wizard's robes that had spilled onto the floor around it.
Harry started picking up books and throwing them hastily into his
trunk. Tonks paused at his open wardrobe to look critically at her reflection
in the mirror on the inside of the door.


"You know, I don't think purple's really my color," she said pensively,
tugging at a lock of spiky hair. "D'you think it makes me look
a bit peaky?"
"Er -" said Harry, looking up at her over the top of Quidditch
Teams of Britain and Ireland.
"Yeah, it does," said Tonks decisively. She screwed up her eyes in a
strained expression as though she were struggling to remember something.
A second later, her hair had turned bubble-gum pink.
"How did you do that?" said Harry, gaping at her as she opened her
eyes again.
"I'm a Metamorphmagus," she said, looking back at her reflection
and turning her head so that she could see her hair from all directions.
"It means I can change my appearance at will," she added, spotting
Harry's puzzled expression in the mirror behind her. "I was born one.
I got top marks in Concealment and Disguise during Auror training
without any study at all, it was great."
"You're an Auror?" said Harry, impressed. Being a Dark wizard
catcher was the only career he'd ever considered after Hogwarts.
"Yeah," said Tonks, looking proud. "Kingsley is as well; he's a bit
higher up than I am, though. I only qualified a year ago. Nearly failed
on Stealth and Tracking, I'm dead clumsy, did you hear me break that
plate when we arrived downstairs?"
"Can you learn how to be a Metamorphmagus?" Harry asked her,
straightening up, completely forgetting about packing.
Tonks chuckled.
"Bet you wouldn't mind hiding that scar sometimes, eh?"
Her eyes found the lightning-shaped scar on Harry's forehead.
"No, I wouldn't mind," Harry mumbled, turning away. He did not
like people staring at his scar.
"Well, you'll have to learn the hard way, I'm afraid," said Tonks.
"Metamorphmagi are really rare, they're born, not made. Most wizards
need to use a wand or potions to change their appearance. . . .


But we've got to get going, Harry, we're supposed to be packing," she
added guiltily, looking around at all the mess on the floor.
"Oh - yeah," said Harry, grabbing up a few more books.
"Don't be stupid, it'll be much quicker if I - pack!" cried Tonks,
waving her wand in a long, sweeping movement over the floor.
Books, clothes, telescope, and scales all soared into the air and flew
pell-mell into the trunk.
"It's not very neat," said Tonks, walking over to the trunk and looking
down at the jumble inside. "My mum's got this knack of getting
stuff to fit itself in neatly - she even gets the socks to fold themselves
- but I've never mastered how she does it - it's a kind of
flick -"
She flicked her wand hopefully; one of Harry's socks gave a feeble
sort of wiggle and flopped back on top of the mess within.
"Ah, well," said Tonks, slamming the trunk's lid shut, "at least it's all
in. That could do with a bit of cleaning, too - Scourgify -" She
pointed her wand at Hedwig's cage; a few feathers and droppings vanished.
"Well, that's a bit better - I've never quite got the hang of
these sort of householdy spells. Right - got everything? Cauldron?
Broom? Wow! A Firebolt?"
Her eyes widened as they fell on the broomstick in Harry's right
hand. It was his pride and joy, a gift from Sirius, an international standard
broomstick.
"And I'm still riding a Comet Two Sixty," said Tonks enviously. "Ah
well . . . wand still in your jeans? Both buttocks still on? Okay, let's go.
Locomotor Trunk."
Harry's trunk rose a few inches into the air. Holding her wand like a
conductor's baton, Tonks made it hover across the room and out of the
door ahead of them, Hedwig's cage in her left hand. Harry followed her
down the stairs carrying his broomstick.
Back in the kitchen, Moody had replaced his eye, which was
spinning so fast after its cleaning it made Harry feel sick. Kingsley


Shacklebolt and Sturgis Podmore were examining the microwave and
Hestia Jones was laughing at a potato peeler she had come across while
rummaging in the drawers. Lupin was sealing a letter addressed to the
Dursleys.
"Excellent," said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and Harry entered.
"We've got about a minute, I think. We should probably get out into
the garden so we're ready. Harry, I've left a letter telling your aunt and
uncle not to worry -"
"They won't," said Harry.
"That you're safe -"
"That'll just depress them."
"- and you'll see them next summer."
"Do I have to?"
Lupin smiled but made no answer.
"Come here, boy," said Moody gruffly, beckoning Harry toward
him with his wand. "I need to Disillusion you."
"You need to what?" said Harry nervously.
"Disillusionment Charm," said Moody, raising his wand. "Lupin
says you've got an Invisibility Cloak, but it won't stay on while we're
flying; this'll disguise you better. Here you go -"
He rapped Harry hard on the top of the head and Harry felt a curious
sensation as though Moody had just smashed an egg there; cold
trickles seemed to be running down his body from the point the wand
had struck.
"Nice one, Mad-Eye," said Tonks appreciatively, staring at Harry's
midriff.
Harry looked down at his body, or rather, what had been his body,
for it didn't look anything like his anymore. It was not invisible; it had
simply taken on the exact color and texture of the kitchen unit behind
him. He seemed to have become a human chameleon.
"Come on," said Moody, unlocking the back door with his wand.
They all stepped outside onto Uncle Vernon's beautifully kept lawn.


"Clear night," grunted Moody, his magical eye scanning the heavens.
"Could've done with a bit more cloud cover. Right, you," he
barked at Harry, "we're going to be flying in close formation. Tonks'll
be right in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin'll be covering
you from below. I'm going to be behind you. The rest'll be circling us.
We don't break ranks for anything, got me? If one of us is killed -"
"Is that likely?" Harry asked apprehensively, but Moody ignored
him.
"- the others keep flying, don't stop, don't break ranks. If they
take out all of us and you survive, Harry, the rear guard are standing
by to take over; keep flying east and they'll join you."
"Stop being so cheerful, Mad-Eye, he'll think we're not taking this
seriously," said Tonks, as she strapped Harry's trunk and Hedwig's
cage into a harness hanging from her broom.
"I'm just telling the boy the plan," growled Moody. "Our job's to
deliver him safely to headquarters and if we die in the attempt -"
"No one's going to die," said Kingsley Shacklebolt in his deep,
calming voice.
"Mount your brooms, that's the first signal!" said Lupin sharply,
pointing into the sky.
Far, far above them, a shower of bright red sparks had flared among
the stars. Harry recognized them at once as wand sparks. He swung
his right leg over his Firebolt, gripped its handle tightly, and felt it
vibrating very slightly, as though it was as keen as he was to be up in
the air once more.
"Second signal, let's go!" said Lupin loudly, as more sparks, green
this time, exploded high above them.
Harry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night air rushed
through his hair as the neat square gardens of Privet Drive fell away,
shrinking rapidly into a patchwork of dark greens and blacks, and
every thought of the Ministry  was swept from his mind as
though the rush of air had blown it out of his head. He felt as though


his heart was going to explode with pleasure; he was flying again, flying
away from Privet Drive as he'd been fantasizing about all summer,
he was going home. . . . For a few glorious moments, all his problems
seemed to recede into nothing, insignificant in the vast, starry sky.
"Hard left, hard left, there's a Muggle looking up!" shouted Moody
from behind him. Tonks swerved and Harry followed her, watching
his trunk swinging wildly beneath her broom. "We need more height.
. . . Give it another quarter of a mile!"
Harry's eyes watered in the chill as they soared upward; he could see
nothing below now but tiny pinpricks of light that were car headlights
and streetlamps. Two of those tiny lights might belong to Uncle Vernon's
car. . . . The Dursleys would be heading back to their empty
house right now, full of rage about the nonexistent lawn competition
. . . and Harry laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was
drowned by the flapping of the others' robes, the creaking of the harness
holding his trunk and the cage, the whoosh of the wind in their
ears as they sped through the air. He had not felt this alive in a month,
or this happy. . . .
"Bearing south!" shouted Mad-Eye. "Town ahead!"
They soared right, so that they did not pass directly over the glittering
spiderweb of lights below.
"Bear southeast and keep climbing, there's some low cloud ahead
we can lose ourselves in!" called Moody.
"We're not going through clouds!" shouted Tonks angrily. "We'll
get soaked, Mad-Eye!"
Harry was relieved to hear her say this; his hands were growing
numb on the Firebolt's handle. He wished he had thought to put on a
coat; he was starting to shiver.
They altered their course every now and then according to Mad-
Eye's instructions. Harry's eyes were screwed up against the rush of icy
wind that was starting to make his ears ache. He could remember being
this cold on a broom only once before, during the Quidditch


match against Hufflepuff in his third year, which had taken place in a
storm. The guard around him was circling continuously like giant
birds of prey. Harry lost track of time. He wondered how long they
had been flying; it felt like an hour at least.
"Turning southwest!" yelled Moody. "We want to avoid the
motorway!"
Harry was now so chilled that he thought longingly for a moment
of the snug, dry interiors of the cars streaming along below, then, even
more longingly, of traveling by Floo powder; it might be uncomfortable
to spin around in fireplaces but it was at least warm in the flames.
. . . Kingsley Shacklebolt swooped around him, bald pate and earring
gleaming slightly in the moonlight. . . . Now Emmeline Vance was on
his right, her wand out, her head turning left and right . . . then she
too swooped over him, to be replaced by Sturgis Podmore. . . .
"We ought to double back for a bit, just to make sure we're not being
followed!" Moody shouted.
"ARE YOU MAD, MAD-EYE?" Tonks screamed from the front.
"We're all frozen to our brooms! If we keep going off course we're not
going to get there until next week! We're nearly there now!"
"Time to start the descent!" came Lupin's voice. "Follow Tonks,
Harry!"
Harry followed Tonks into a dive. They were heading for the largest
collection of lights he had yet seen, a huge, sprawling, crisscrossing
mass, glittering in lines and grids, interspersed with patches of deepest
black. Lower and lower they flew, until Harry could see individual
headlights and streetlamps, chimneys, and television aerials. He
wanted to reach the ground very much, though he felt sure that someone
would have to unfreeze him from his broom.
"Here we go!" called Tonks, and a few seconds later she had landed.
Harry touched down right behind her and dismounted on a patch
of unkempt grass in the middle of a small square. Tonks was already
unbuckling Harry's trunk. Shivering, Harry looked around. The grimy


fronts of the surrounding houses were not welcoming; some of them
had broken windows, glimmering dully in the light from the streetlamps,
paint was peeling from many of the doors, and heaps of rubbish
lay outside several sets of front steps.
"Where are we?" Harry asked, but Lupin said quietly, "In a minute."
Moody was rummaging in his cloak, his gnarled hands clumsy with
cold.
"Got it," he muttered, raising what looked like a silver cigarette
lighter into the air and clicking it.
The nearest streetlamp went out with a pop. He clicked the unlighter
again; the next lamp went out. He kept clicking until every
lamp in the square was extinguished and the only light in the square
came from curtained windows and the sickle moon overhead.
"Borrowed it from Dumbledore," growled Moody, pocketing the
Put-Outer. "That'll take care of any Muggles looking out of the window,
see? Now, come on, quick."
He took Harry by the arm and led him from the patch of grass,
across the road, and onto the pavement. Lupin and Tonks followed,
carrying Harry's trunk between them, the rest of the guard, all with
their wands out, flanking them.
The muffled pounding of a stereo was coming from an upper window
in the nearest house. A pungent smell of rotting rubbish came
from the pile of bulging bin-bags just inside the broken gate.
"Here," Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of parchment toward
Harry's Disillusioned hand and holding his lit wand close to it, so as
to illuminate the writing. "Read quickly and memorize."
Harry looked down at the piece of paper. The narrow handwriting
was vaguely familiar. It said:
The headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix may be found at
 , London.




hat's the Order of the - ?" Harry began.
"Not here, boy!" snarled Moody. "Wait till we're inside!"
He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harry's hand and set fire
to it with his wand tip. As the message curled into flames and floated
to the ground, Harry looked around at the houses again. They were
standing outside number eleven; he looked to the left and saw number
ten; to the right, however, was number thirteen.
"But where's - ?"
"Think about what you've just memorized," said Lupin quietly.
Harry thought, and no sooner had he reached the part about number
twelve, , than a battered door emerged out of
nowhere between numbers eleven and thirteen, followed swiftly by
dirty walls and grimy windows. It was as though an extra house had
inflated, pushing those on either side out of its way. Harry gaped at it.
The stereo in number eleven thudded on. Apparently the Muggles inside
hadn't even felt anything.
"Come on, hurry," growled Moody, prodding Harry in the back.
W


Harry walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the newly materialized
door. Its black paint was shabby and scratched. The silver door
knocker was in the form of a twisted serpent. There was no keyhole or
letterbox.
Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. Harry heard
many loud, metallic clicks and what sounded like the clatter of a
chain. The door creaked open.
"Get in quick, Harry," Lupin whispered. "But don't go far inside
and don't touch anything."
Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total darkness of
the hall. He could smell damp, dust, and a sweetish, rotting smell; the
place had the feeling of a derelict building. He looked over his shoulder
and saw the others filing in behind him, Lupin and Tonks carrying
his trunk and Hedwig's cage. Moody was standing on the top step and
releasing the balls of light the Put-Outer had stolen from the streetlamps;
they flew back to their bulbs and the square beyond glowed
momentarily with orange light before Moody limped inside and
closed the front door, so that the darkness in the hall became complete.
"Here -"
He rapped Harry hard over the head with his wand; Harry felt as
though something hot was trickling down his back this time and
knew that the Disillusionment Charm must have lifted.
"Now stay still, everyone, while I give us a bit of light in here,"
Moody whispered.
The others' hushed voices were giving Harry an odd feeling of foreboding;
it was as though they had just entered the house of a dying
person. He heard a soft hissing noise and then old-fashioned gas
lamps sputtered into life all along the walls, casting a flickering insubstantial
light over the peeling wallpaper and threadbare carpet of a
long, gloomy hallway, where a cobwebby chandelier glimmered overhead
and age-blackened portraits hung crooked on the walls. Harry



heard something scuttling behind the baseboard. Both the chandelier
and the candelabra on a rickety table nearby were shaped like serpents.
There were hurried footsteps and Ron's mother, ,
emerged from a door at the far end of the hall. She was beaming in
welcome as she hurried toward them, though Harry noticed that she
was rather thinner and paler than she had been last time he had seen
her.
"Oh, Harry, it's lovely to see you!" she whispered, pulling him into
a rib-cracking hug before holding him at arm's length and examining
him critically. "You're looking peaky; you need feeding up, but you'll
have to wait a bit for dinner, I'm afraid. . . ."
She turned to the gang of wizards behind him and whispered urgently,
"He's just arrived, the meeting's started. . . ."
The wizards behind Harry all made noises of interest and excitement
and began filing past Harry toward the door through which
 had just come; Harry made to follow Lupin, but Mrs.
Weasley held him back.
"No, Harry, the meeting's only for members of the Order. Ron and
Hermione are upstairs, you can wait with them until the meeting's
over and then we'll have dinner. And keep your voice down in the
hall," she added in an urgent whisper.
"Why?"
"I don't want to wake anything up."
"What d'you - ?"
"I'll explain later, I've got to hurry, I'm supposed to be at the meeting
- I'll just show you where you're sleeping."
Pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoes past a pair of
long, moth-eaten curtains, behind which Harry supposed there must
be another door, and after skirting a large umbrella stand that looked
as though it had been made from a severed troll's leg, they started up
the dark staircase, passing a row of shrunken heads mounted on


plaques on the wall. A closer look showed Harry that the heads belonged
to house-elves. All of them had the same rather snoutlike nose.
Harry's bewilderment deepened with every step he took. What on
earth were they doing in a house that looked as though it belonged to
the Darkest of wizards?
", why - ?"
"Ron and Hermione will explain everything, dear, I've really got to
dash,"  whispered distractedly. "There" - they had
reached the second landing - "you're the door on the right. I'll call
you when it's over."
And she hurried off downstairs again.
Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom doorknob,
which was shaped like a serpent's head, and opened the door.
He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy high-ceilinged, twin-bedded
room, then there was a loud twittering noise, followed by an even
louder shriek, and his vision was completely obscured by a large quantity
of very bushy hair - Hermione had thrown herself onto him in a
hug that nearly knocked him flat, while Ron's tiny owl, Pigwidgeon,
zoomed excitedly round and round their heads.
"HARRY! Ron, he's here, Harry's here! We didn't hear you arrive!
Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have you been furious with us? I
bet you have, I know our letters were useless - but we couldn't tell
you anything, Dumbledore made us swear we wouldn't, oh, we've got
so much to tell you, and you've got to tell us - the dementors! When
we heard - and that Ministry  - it's just outrageous, I've
looked it all up, they can't expel you, they just can't, there's provision
in the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Sorcery for the use of
magic in life-threatening situations -"
"Let him breathe, Hermione," said Ron, grinning, closing the door
behind Harry. He seemed to have grown several more inches during
their month apart, making him taller and more gangly looking than
ever, though the long nose, bright red hair, and freckles were the same.



Hermione, still beaming, let go of Harry, but before she could say
another word there was a soft whooshing sound and something white
soared from the top of a dark wardrobe and landed gently on Harry's
shoulder.
"Hedwig!"
The snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear affectionately
as Harry stroked her feathers.
"She's been in a right state," said Ron. "Pecked us half to death
when she brought your last letters, look at this -"
He showed Harry the index finger of his right hand, which sported
a half-healed but clearly deep cut.
"Oh yeah," Harry said. "Sorry about that, but I wanted answers,
you know. . . ."
"We wanted to give them to you, mate," said Ron. "Hermione was
going spare, she kept saying you'd do something stupid if you were
stuck all on your own without news, but Dumbledore made us -"
"- swear not to tell me," said Harry. "Yeah, Hermione's already
said."
The warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight of his two
best friends was extinguished as something icy flooded the pit of his
stomach. All of a sudden - after yearning to see them for a solid
month - he felt he would rather Ron and Hermione left him alone.
There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked Hedwig automatically,
not looking at either of the others.
"He seemed to think it was best," said Hermione rather breathlessly.
"Dumbledore, I mean."
"Right," said Harry. He noticed that her hands too bore the marks
of Hedwig's beak and found that he was not at all sorry.
"I think he thought you were safest with the Muggles -" Ron
began.
"Yeah?" said Harry, raising his eyebrows. "Have either of you been
attacked by dementors this summer?"


"Well, no - but that's why he's had people from the Order of the
Phoenix tailing you all the time -"
Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step
going downstairs. So everyone had known he was being followed except
him.
"Didn't work that well, though, did it?" said Harry, doing his
utmost to keep his voice even. "Had to look after myself after all,
didn't I?"
"He was so angry," said Hermione in an almost awestruck voice.
"Dumbledore. We saw him. When he found out Mundungus had left
before his shift had ended. He was scary."
"Well, I'm glad he left," Harry said coldly. "If he hadn't, I wouldn't
have done magic and Dumbledore would probably have left me at
Privet Drive all summer."
"Aren't you . . . aren't you worried about 
?" said Hermione quietly.
"No," Harry lied defiantly. He walked away from them, looking
around, with Hedwig nestled contentedly on his shoulder, but this
room was not likely to raise his spirits. It was dank and dark. A blank
stretch of canvas in an ornate picture frame was all that relieved the
bareness of the peeling walls and as Harry passed it he thought he
heard someone lurking out of sight snigger.
"So why's Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the dark?"
Harry asked, still trying hard to keep his voice casual. "Did you -
er - bother to ask him at all?"
He glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a look that told
him he was behaving just as they had feared he would. It did nothing
to improve his temper.
"We told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was going on,"
said Ron. "We did, mate. But he's really busy now, we've only seen
him twice since we came here and he didn't have much time, he just



made us swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, he said
the owls might be intercepted -"
"He could still've kept me informed if he'd wanted to," Harry said
shortly. "You're not telling me he doesn't know ways to send messages
without owls."
Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, "I thought that too. But
he didn't want you to know anything."
"Maybe he thinks I can't be trusted," said Harry, watching their expressions.
"Don't be thick," said Ron, looking highly disconcerted.
"Or that I can't take care of myself -"
"Of course he doesn't think that!" said Hermione anxiously.
"So how come I have to stay at the Dursleys' while you two get to
join in everything that's going on here?" said Harry, the words tumbling
over one another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every
word. "How come you two are allowed to know everything that's going
on - ?"
"We're not!" Ron interrupted. "Mum won't let us near the meetings,
she says we're too young -"
But before he knew it, Harry was shouting.
"SO YOU HAVEN'T BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG DEAL!
YOU'VE STILL BEEN HERE, HAVEN'T YOU? YOU'VE STILL
BEEN TOGETHER! ME, I'VE BEEN STUCK AT THE DURSLEYS'
FOR A MONTH! AND I'VE HANDLED MORE THAN
YOU TWO'VE EVER MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE
KNOWS IT - WHO SAVED THE SORCERER'S STONE?
WHO GOT RID OF RIDDLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR
SKINS FROM THE DEMENTORS?"
Every bitter and resentful thought that Harry had had in the past
month was pouring out of him; his frustration at the lack of news, the
hurt that they had all been together without him, his fury at being


followed and not told about it: All the feelings he was half-ashamed of
finally burst their boundaries. Hedwig took fright at the noise and
soared off on top of the wardrobe again; Pigwidgeon twittered in
alarm and zoomed even faster around their heads.
"WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES
AND EVERY OTHER FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO SAW
HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ESCAPE FROM HIM? ME!"
Ron was standing there with his mouth half-open, clearly stunned
and at a loss for anything to say, while Hermione looked on the verge
of tears.
"BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON? WHY
SHOULD ANYONE BOTHER TO TELL ME WHAT'S BEEN
HAPPENING?"
"Harry, we wanted to tell you, we really did -" Hermione began.
"CAN'T'VE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR
YOU'D HAVE SENT ME AN OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE
MADE YOU SWEAR -"
"Well, he did -"
"FOUR WEEKS I'VE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE,
NICKING PAPERS OUT OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND OUT
WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON -"
"We wanted to -"
"I SUPPOSE YOU'VE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH,
HAVEN'T YOU, ALL HOLED UP HERE TOGETHER -"
"No, honest -"
"Harry, we're really sorry!" said Hermione desperately, her eyes now
sparkling with tears. "You're absolutely right, Harry - I'd be furious
if it was me!"
Harry glared at her, still breathing deeply, then turned away from
them again, pacing up and down. Hedwig hooted glumly from the
top of the wardrobe. There was a long pause, broken only by the
mournful creak of the floorboards below Harry's feet.



"What is this place anyway?" he shot at Ron and Hermione.
"Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix," said Ron at once.
"Is anyone going to bother telling me what the Order of the
Phoenix - ?"
"It's a secret society," said Hermione quickly. "Dumbledore's in
charge, he founded it. It's the people who fought against You-Know-
Who last time."
"Who's in it?" said Harry, coming to a halt with his hands in his
pockets.
"Quite a few people -"
"- we've met about twenty of them," said Ron, "but we think
there are more. . . ."
Harry glared at them.
"Well?" he demanded, looking from one to the other.
"Er," said Ron. "Well what?"
"Voldemort!" said Harry furiously, and both Ron and Hermione
winced. "What's happening? What's he up to? Where is he? What are
we doing to stop him?"
"We've told you, the Order don't let us in on their meetings," said
Hermione nervously. "So we don't know the details - but we've got a
general idea -" she added hastily, seeing the look on Harry's face.
"Fred and George have invented Extendable Ears, see," said Ron.
"They're really useful."
"Extendable - ?"
"Ears, yeah. Only we've had to stop using them lately because
Mum found out and went berserk. Fred and George had to hide them
all to stop Mum binning them. But we got a good bit of use out of
them before Mum realized what was going on. We know some of the
Order are following known Death Eaters, keeping tabs on them, you
know -"
"- some of them are working on recruiting more people to the
Order -" said Hermione.


"- and some of them are standing guard over something," said
Ron. "They're always talking about guard duty."
"Couldn't have been me, could it?" said Harry sarcastically.
"Oh yeah," said Ron, with a look of dawning comprehension.
Harry snorted. He walked around the room again, looking anywhere
but at Ron and Hermione. "So what have you two been doing,
if you're not allowed in meetings?" he demanded. "You said you'd
been busy."
"We have," said Hermione quickly. "We've been decontaminating
this house, it's been empty for ages and stuff 's been breeding in here.
We've managed to clean out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms, and I
think we're doing the drawing room tomo - AARGH!"
With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Ron's elder twin brothers,
had materialized out of thin air in the middle of the room. Pigwidgeon
twittered more wildly than ever and zoomed off to join Hedwig
on top of the wardrobe.
"Stop doing that!" Hermione said weakly to the twins, who were as
vividly red-haired as Ron, though stockier and slightly shorter.
"Hello, Harry," said George, beaming at him. "We thought we
heard your dulcet tones."
"You don't want to bottle up your anger like that, Harry, let it all
out," said Fred, also beaming. "There might be a couple of people fifty
miles away who didn't hear you."
"You two passed your Apparation tests, then?" asked Harry
grumpily.
"With distinction," said Fred, who was holding what looked like a
piece of very long, flesh-colored string.
"It would have taken you about thirty seconds longer to walk down
the stairs," said Ron.
"Time is Galleons, little brother," said Fred. "Anyway, Harry, you're
interfering with reception. Extendable Ears," he added in response to



Harry's raised eyebrows, holding up the string, which Harry now saw
was trailing out onto the landing. "We're trying to hear what's going
on downstairs."
"You want to be careful," said Ron, staring at the ear. "If Mum sees
one of them again . . ."
"It's worth the risk, that's a major meeting they're having," said
Fred.
The door opened and a long mane of red hair appeared.
"Oh hello, Harry!" said Ron's younger sister, Ginny, brightly. "I
thought I heard your voice."
Turning to Fred and George she said, "It's no go with the Extendable
Ears, she's gone and put an Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen
door."
"How d'you know?" said George, looking crestfallen.
"Tonks told me how to find out," said Ginny. "You just chuck stuff
at the door and if it can't make contact the door's been Imperturbed.
I've been flicking Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they
just soar away from it, so there's no way the Extendable Ears will be
able to get under the gap."
Fred heaved a deep sigh. "Shame. I really fancied finding out what
old Snape's been up to."
"Snape?" said Harry quickly. "Is he here?"
"Yeah," said George, carefully closing the door and sitting down on
one of the beds; Fred and Ginny followed. "Giving a report. Top
secret."
"Git," said Fred idly.
"He's on our side now," said Hermione reprovingly.
Ron snorted. "Doesn't stop him being a git. The way he looks at us
when he sees us. . . ."
"Bill doesn't like him either," said Ginny, as though that settled the
matter.


Harry was not sure his anger had abated yet; but his thirst for
information was now overcoming his urge to keep shouting. He sank
onto the bed opposite the others.
"Is Bill here?" he asked. "I thought he was working in Egypt."
"He applied for a desk job so he could come home and work for the
Order," said Fred. "He says he misses the tombs, but," he smirked,
"there are compensations. . . ."
"What d'you mean?"
"Remember old Fleur Delacour?" said George. "She's got a job at
Gringotts to eemprove 'er Eeenglish -"
"- and Bill's been giving her a lot of private lessons," sniggered
Fred.
"Charlie's in the Order too," said George, "but he's still in Romania,
Dumbledore wants as many foreign wizards brought in as possible, so
Charlie's trying to make contacts on his days off."
"Couldn't Percy do that?" Harry asked. The last he had heard, the
third Weasley brother was working in  of International
Magical Cooperation at .
At these words all the Weasleys and Hermione exchanged darkly
significant looks.
"Whatever you do, don't mention Percy in front of Mum and
Dad," Ron told Harry in a tense voice.
"Why not?"
"Because every time Percy's name's mentioned, Dad breaks whatever
he's holding and Mum starts crying," Fred said.
"It's been awful," said Ginny sadly.
"I think we're well shut of him," said George with an uncharacteristically
ugly look on his face.
"What's happened?" Harry said.
"Percy and Dad had a row," said Fred. "I've never seen Dad row
with anyone like that. It's normally Mum who shouts. . . ."
"It was the first week back after term ended," said Ron. "We were



about to come and join the Order. Percy came home and told us he'd
been promoted."
"You're kidding?" said Harry.
Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly ambitious,
Harry's impression was that Percy had not made a great success of his
first job at . Percy had committed the fairly large
oversight of failing to notice that his boss was being controlled by
Lord Voldemort (not that the Ministry had believed that - they all
thought that Mr. Crouch had gone mad).
"Yeah, we were all surprised," said George, "because Percy got into
a load of trouble about Crouch, there was an inquiry and everything.
They said Percy ought to have realized Crouch was off his rocker and
informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left him in charge,
he wasn't going to complain. . . ."
"So how come they promoted him?"
"That's exactly what we wondered," said Ron, who seemed very
keen to keep normal conversation going now that Harry had stopped
yelling. "He came home really pleased with himself - even more
pleased than usual if you can imagine that - and told Dad he'd been
offered a position in Fudge's own office. A really good one for someone
only a year out of Hogwarts - Junior Assistant to the Minister.
He expected Dad to be all impressed, I think."
"Only Dad wasn't," said Fred grimly.
"Why not?" said Harry.
"Well, apparently Fudge has been storming round the Ministry
checking that nobody's having any contact with Dumbledore," said
George.
"Dumbledore's name's mud with the Ministry these days, see," said
Fred. "They all think he's just making trouble saying You-Know-
Who's back."
"Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone who's in league with
Dumbledore can clear out their desks," said George.


"Trouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows he's friendly with Dumbledore,
and he's always thought Dad's a bit of a weirdo because of his
Muggle obsession -"
"But what's this got to do with Percy?" asked Harry, confused.
"I'm coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants Percy in his
office because he wants to use him to spy on the family - and
Dumbledore."
Harry let out a low whistle.
"Bet Percy loved that."
Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way.
"He went completely berserk. He said - well, he said loads of terrible
stuff. He said he's been having to struggle against Dad's lousy
reputation ever since he joined the Ministry and that Dad's got no
ambition and that's why we've always been - you know - not had a
lot of money, I mean -"
"What?" said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a noise like an angry
cat.
"I know," said Ron in a low voice. "And it got worse. He said Dad
was an idiot to run around with Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was
heading for big trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and
that he - Percy - knew where his loyalty lay and it was with the
Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were going to become traitors to the
Ministry he was going to make sure everyone knew he didn't belong
to our family anymore. And he packed his bags the same night and
left. He's living here in London now."
Harry swore under his breath. He had always liked Percy least of
Ron's brothers, but he had never imagined he would say such things
to Mr. Weasley.
"Mum's been in a right state," said Ron. "You know - crying and
stuff. She came up to London to try and talk to Percy but he slammed
the door in her face. I dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work -
ignores him, I s'pose."



"But Percy must know Voldemort's back," said Harry slowly. "He's
not stupid, he must know your mum and dad wouldn't risk everything
without proof -"
"Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row," said Ron, shooting
Harry a furtive look. "Percy said the only evidence was your word
and . . . I dunno . . . he didn't think it was good enough."
"Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously," said Hermione tartly, and
the others all nodded.
"What are you talking about?" Harry asked, looking around at
them all. They were all regarding him warily.
"Haven't - haven't you been getting the Daily Prophet?" Hermione
asked nervously.
"Yeah, I have!" said Harry.
"Have you - er - been reading it thoroughly?" Hermione asked
still more anxiously.
"Not cover to cover," said Harry defensively. "If they were going
to report anything about Voldemort it would be headline news,
wouldn't it!"
The others flinched at the sound of the name. Hermione hurried
on, "Well, you'd need to read it cover to cover to pick it up, but
they - um - they mention you a couple of times a week."
"But I'd have seen -"
"Not if you've only been reading the front page, you wouldn't," said
Hermione, shaking her head. "I'm not talking about big articles. They
just slip you in, like you're a standing joke."
"What d'you - ?"
"It's quite nasty, actually," said Hermione in a voice of forced calm.
"They're just building on Rita's stuff."
"But she's not writing for them anymore, is she?"
"Oh no, she's kept her promise - not that she's got any choice,"
Hermione added with satisfaction. "But she laid the foundation for
what they're trying to do now."


"Which is what?" said Harry impatiently.
"Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing all over the
place and saying your scar was hurting and all that?"
"Yeah," said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita Skeeter's stories
about him in a hurry.
"Well, they're writing about you as though you're this deluded,
attention-seeking person who thinks he's a great tragic hero or something,"
said Hermione, very fast, as though it would be less unpleasant
for Harry to hear these facts quickly. "They keep slipping in snide
comments about you. If some far-fetched story appears they say something
like 'a tale worthy of Harry Potter' and if anyone has a funny
accident or anything it's 'let's hope he hasn't got a scar on his forehead
or we'll be asked to worship him next -' "
"I don't want anyone to worship -" Harry began hotly.
"I know you don't," said Hermione quickly, looking frightened.
"I know, Harry. But you see what they're doing? They want to turn
you into someone nobody will believe. Fudge is behind it, I'll bet
anything. They want wizards on the street to think you're just some
stupid boy who's a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous tall stories because
he loves being famous and wants to keep it going."
"I didn't ask - I didn't want - Voldemort killed my parents!"
Harry spluttered. "I got famous because he murdered my family but
couldn't kill me! Who wants to be famous for that? Don't they think
I'd rather it'd never -"
"We know, Harry," said Ginny earnestly.
"And of course, they didn't report a word about the dementors attacking
you," said Hermione. "Someone's told them to keep that
quiet. That should've been a really big story, out-of-control dementors.
They haven't even reported that you broke the International
Statute of Secrecy - we thought they would, it would tie in so well
with this image of you as some stupid show-off - we think they're


biding their time until you're expelled, then they're really going to go
to town - I mean, if you're expelled, obviously," she went on hastily,
"you really shouldn't be, not if they abide by their own laws, there's no
case against you."
They were back on  and Harry did not want to think
about it. He cast around for another change of subject, but was saved
the necessity of finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the
stairs.
"Uh-oh."
Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug; there was another loud
crack and he and George vanished. Seconds later,  appeared
in the bedroom doorway.
"The meeting's over, you can come down and have dinner now,
everyone's dying to see you, Harry. And who's left all those Dungbombs
outside the kitchen door?"
"Crookshanks," said Ginny unblushingly. "He loves playing with
them."
"Oh," said , "I thought it might have been Kreacher,
he keeps doing odd things like that. Now don't forget to keep your
voices down in the hall. Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you
been doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please. . . ."
Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother out of the
room, leaving Harry alone with Ron and Hermione again. Both of
them were watching him apprehensively, as though they feared that he
would start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. The sight
of them looking so nervous made him feel slightly ashamed.
"Look . . ." he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and Hermione
said quietly, "We knew you'd be angry, Harry, we really don't blame
you, but you've got to understand, we did try and persuade Dumbledore
-"
"Yeah, I know," said Harry grudgingly.


He cast around for a topic to change the subject from Dumbledore
- the very thought of him made Harry's insides burn with
anger again.
"Who's Kreacher?" he asked.
"The house-elf who lives here," said Ron. "Nutter. Never met one
like him."
Hermione frowned at Ron.
"He's not a nutter, Ron -"
"His life's ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a
plaque just like his mother," said Ron irritably. "Is that normal,
Hermione?"
"Well - well, if he is a bit strange, it's not his fault -"
Ron rolled his eyes at Harry.
"Hermione still hasn't given up on spew -"
"It's not 'spew'!" said Hermione heatedly. "It's the Society for the
Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it's not just me, Dumbledore says we
should be kind to Kreacher too -"
"Yeah, yeah," said Ron. "C'mon, I'm starving."
He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, but before
they could descend the stairs - "Hold it!" Ron breathed, flinging out
an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking any farther. "They're
still in the hall, we might be able to hear something -"
The three of them looked cautiously over the banisters. The gloomy
hallway below was packed with witches and wizards, including all of
Harry's guard. They were whispering excitedly together. In the very
center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired head and prominent
nose of his least favorite teacher at Hogwarts, Professor Snape.
Harry leaned farther over the banisters. He was very interested in what
Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix. . . .
A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front of Harry's
eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George on the landing above, cautiously
lowering the Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people



below. A moment later, however, they began to move toward the front
door and out of sight.
"Dammit," Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted the Extendable
Ear back up again.
They heard the front door open and then close.
"Snape never eats here," Ron told Harry quietly. "Thank God.
C'mon."
"And don't forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry,"
Hermione whispered.
As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall they saw
Lupin, , and Tonks at the front door, magically sealing its
many locks and bolts behind those who had just left.
"We're eating down in the kitchen,"  whispered,
meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. "Harry, dear, if you'll just
tiptoe across the hall, it's through this door here -"
CRASH.
"Tonks!" cried  exasperatedly, turning to look behind
her.
"I'm sorry!" wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. "It's that
stupid umbrella stand, that's the second time I've tripped over -"
But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, earsplitting,
bloodcurdling screech.
The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed earlier had flown
apart, but there was no door behind them. For a split second, Harry
thought he was looking through a window, a window behind which
an old woman in a black cap was screaming and screaming as though
she was being tortured - then he realized it was simply a life-size portrait,
but the most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever seen
in his life.
The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing
skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed, and all along the hall
behind them, the other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that


Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands
over his ears.
Lupin and  darted forward and tried to tug the curtains
shut over the old woman, but they would not close and she
screeched louder than ever, brandishing clawed hands as though trying
to tear at their faces.
"Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half-breeds, mutants,
freaks, begone from this place! How dare you befoul the house of my
fathers -"
Tonks apologized over and over again, at the same time dragging
the huge, heavy troll's leg back off the floor.  abandoned
the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall,
Stunning all the other portraits with her wand. Then a man with long
black hair came charging out of a door facing Harry.
"Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!" he roared, seizing the
curtain  had abandoned.
The old woman's face blanched.
"Yoooou!" she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man.
"Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh!"
"I said - shut - UP!" roared the man, and with a stupendous effort
he and Lupin managed to force the curtains closed again.
The old woman's screeches died and an echoing silence fell.
Panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes,
Harry's godfather, Sirius, turned to face him.
"Hello, Harry," he said grimly, "I see you've met my mother."


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
our - ?"
"My dear old mum, yeah," said Sirius. "We've been trying
to get her down for a month but we think she put a Permanent Sticking
Charm on the back of the canvas. Let's get downstairs, quick,
before they all wake up again."
"But what's a portrait of your mother doing here?" Harry asked,
bewildered, as they went through the door from the hall and led the
way down a flight of narrow stone steps, the others just behind them.
"Hasn't anyone told you? This was my parents' house," said Sirius.
"But I'm the last Black left, so it's mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore
for headquarters - about the only useful thing I've been able to do."
Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how hard and
bitter Sirius's voice sounded. He followed his godfather to the bottom
of the stairs and through a door leading into the basement kitchen.
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a cavernous room
with rough stone walls. Most of the light was coming from a large fire
at the far end of the room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like
battle fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of heavy
Y


iron pots and pans hanging from the dark ceiling. Many chairs had
been crammed into the room for the meeting and a long wooden table
stood in the middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment, goblets,
empty wine bottles, and a heap of what appeared to be rags. Mr.
Weasley and his eldest son, Bill, were talking quietly with their heads
together at the end of the table.
 cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, balding, redhaired
man, who wore horn-rimmed glasses, looked around and
jumped to his feet.
"Harry!" Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him and
shaking his hand vigorously. "Good to see you!"
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a
ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths of parchment left on the table.
"Journey all right, Harry?" Bill called, trying to gather up twelve
scrolls at once. "Mad-Eye didn't make you come via Greenland,
then?"
"He tried," said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately
sending a candle toppling onto the last piece of parchment. "Oh
no - sorry -"
"Here, dear," said , sounding exasperated, and she repaired
the parchment with a wave of her wand: In the flash of light
caused by 's charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what
looked like the plan of a building.
 had seen him looking. She snatched the plan off the
table and stuffed it into Bill's heavily laden arms.
"This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of
meetings," she snapped before sweeping off toward an ancient dresser
from which she started unloading dinner plates.
Bill took out his wand, muttered "Evanesco!" and the scrolls
vanished.
"Sit down, Harry," said Sirius. "You've met Mundungus, haven't
you?"

The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a prolonged,
grunting snore and then jerked awake.
"Some'n say m' name?" Mundungus mumbled sleepily. "I 'gree
with Sirius. . . ."
He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though voting, his
droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny giggled.
"The meeting's over, Dung," said Sirius, as they all sat down
around him at the table. "Harry's arrived."
"Eh?" said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry through his
matted ginger hair. "Blimey, so 'e 'as. Yeah . . . you all right, 'arry?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still staring at
Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. He stuck it in his mouth,
ignited the end of it with his wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great
billowing clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds.
"Owe you a 'pology," grunted a voice from the middle of the smelly
cloud.
"For the last time, Mundungus," called , "will you
please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, especially not when we're
about to eat!"
"Ah," said Mundungus. "Right. Sorry, Molly."
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed his pipe back
in his pocket, but an acrid smell of burning socks lingered.
"And if you want dinner before midnight I'll need a hand," Mrs.
Weasley said to the room at large. "No, you can stay where you are,
Harry dear, you've had a long journey -"
"What can I do, Molly?" said Tonks enthusiastically, bounding forward.
 hesitated, looking apprehensive.
"Er - no, it's all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, you've done
enough today -"
"No, no, I want to help!" said Tonks brightly, knocking over a chair


as she hurried toward the dresser from which Ginny was collecting
cutlery.
Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat and vegetables of
their own accord, supervised by Mr. Weasley, while 
stirred a cauldron dangling over the fire and the others took out plates,
more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was left at the table
with Sirius and Mundungus, who was still blinking mournfully at
him.
"Seen old Figgy since?" he asked.
"No," said Harry, "I haven't seen anyone."
"See, I wouldn't 'ave left," said Mundungus, leaning forward, a
pleading note in his voice, "but I 'ad a business opportunity -"
Harry felt something brush against his knees and started, but it was
only Crookshanks, Hermione's bandy-legged ginger cat, who wound
himself once around Harry's legs, purring, then jumped onto Sirius's
lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him absentmindedly behind the
ears as he turned, still grim-faced, to Harry.
"Had a good summer so far?"
"No, it's been lousy," said Harry.
For the first time, something like a grin flitted across Sirius's face.
"Don't know what you're complaining about, myself."
"What?" said Harry incredulously.
"Personally, I'd have welcomed a dementor attack. A deadly struggle
for my soul would have broken the monotony nicely. You think
you've had it bad, at least you've been able to get out and about,
stretch your legs, get into a few fights. . . . I've been stuck inside for a
month."
"How come?" asked Harry, frowning.
"Because 's still after me, and Voldemort will
know all about me being an Animagus by now, Wormtail will have
told him, so my big disguise is useless. There's not much I can do for
the Order of the Phoenix . . . or so Dumbledore feels."

There was something about the slightly flattened tone of voice in
which Sirius uttered Dumbledore's name that told Harry that Sirius
was not very happy with the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden
upsurge of affection for his godfather.
"At least you've known what's been going on," he said bracingly.
"Oh yeah," said Sirius sarcastically. "Listening to Snape's reports,
having to take all his snide hints that he's out there risking his life
while I'm sat on my backside here having a nice comfortable time . . .
asking me how the cleaning's going -"
"What cleaning?" asked Harry.
"Trying to make this place fit for human habitation," said Sirius,
waving a hand around the dismal kitchen. "No one's lived here for
ten years, not since my dear mother died, unless you count her old
house-elf, and he's gone round the twist, hasn't cleaned anything in
ages -"
"Sirius?" said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any
attention to this conversation, but had been minutely examining an
empty goblet. "This solid silver, mate?"
"Yes," said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. "Finest fifteenthcentury
goblin-wrought silver, embossed with the Black family crest."
"That'd come off, though," muttered Mundungus, polishing it
with his cuff.
"Fred - George - NO, JUST CARRY THEM!" 
shrieked.
Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a split second
later, dived away from the table. Fred and George had bewitched a
large cauldron of stew, an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy
wooden breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through the air
toward them. The stew skidded the length of the table and came to a
halt just before the end, leaving a long black burn on the wooden surface,
the flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its contents
everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off the board and landed,


point down and quivering ominously, exactly where Sirius's right
hand had been seconds before.
"FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE!" screamed . "THERE
WAS NO NEED - I'VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS - JUST BECAUSE
YOU'RE ALLOWED TO USE MAGIC NOW YOU
DON'T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY
TINY LITTLE THING!"
"We were just trying to save a bit of time!" said Fred, hurrying forward
and wrenching the bread knife out of the table. "Sorry Sirius,
mate - didn't mean to -"
Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus, who had toppled
backward off his chair, was swearing as he got to his feet. Crookshanks
had given an angry hiss and shot off under the dresser, from
whence his large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness.
"Boys," Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into the middle of
the table, "your mother's right, you're supposed to show a sense of responsibility
now you've come of age -"
"- none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!" Mrs.
Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh flagon of butterbeer onto
the table and spilling almost as much again. "Bill didn't feel the need
to Apparate every few feet! Charlie didn't Charm everything he met!
Percy -"
She stopped dead, catching her breath with a frightened look at her
husband, whose expression was suddenly wooden.
"Let's eat," said Bill quickly.
"It looks wonderful, Molly," said Lupin, ladling stew onto a plate
for her and handing it across the table.
For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink of plates and
cutlery and the scraping of chairs as everyone settled down to their
food. Then  turned to Sirius and said, "I've been meaning
to tell you, there's something trapped in that writing desk in the
drawing room, it keeps rattling and shaking. Of course, it could just

be a boggart, but I thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at
it before we let it out."
"Whatever you like," said Sirius indifferently.
"The curtains in there are full of doxies too,"  went
on. "I thought we might try and tackle them tomorrow."
"I look forward to it," said Sirius. Harry heard the sarcasm in his
voice, but he was not sure that anyone else did.
Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione and Ginny by
transforming her nose between mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each
time with the same pained expression she had worn back in Harry's
bedroom, her nose swelled to a beaklike protuberance like Snape's,
shrank to something resembling a button mushroom, and then
sprouted a great deal of hair from each nostril. Apparently this was a
regular mealtime entertainment, because after a while Hermione and
Ginny started requesting their favorite noses.
"Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks . . ."
Tonks obliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting impression
that a female Dudley was grinning at him from across the table.
Mr. Weasley, Bill, and Lupin were having an intense discussion
about goblins.
"They're not giving anything away yet," said Bill. "I still can't work
out whether they believe he's back or not. 'Course, they might prefer
not to take sides at all. Keep out of it."
"I'm sure they'd never go over to You-Know-Who," said Mr.
Weasley, shaking his head. "They've suffered losses too. Remember
that goblin family he murdered last time, somewhere near
Nottingham?"
"I think it depends what they're offered," said Lupin. "And I'm not
talking about gold; if they're offered freedoms we've been denying
them for centuries they're going to be tempted. Have you still not had
any luck with Ragnok, Bill?"
"He's feeling pretty anti-wizard at the moment," said Bill. "He


hasn't stopped raging about the Bagman business, he reckons the
Ministry did a cover-up, those goblins never got their gold from him,
you know -"
A gale of laughter from the middle of the table drowned the rest of
Bill's words. Fred, George, Ron, and Mundungus were rolling around
in their seats.
". . . and then," choked Mundungus, tears running down his face,
"and then, if you'll believe it, 'e says to me, 'e says, ' 'ere, Dung, where
didja get all them toads from? 'Cos some son of a Bludger's gone and
nicked all mine!' And I says, 'Nicked all your toads, Will, what next?
So you'll be wanting some more, then?' And if you'll believe me, lads,
the gormless gargoyle buys all 'is own toads back orf me for twice what
'e paid in the first place -"
"I don't think we need to hear any more of your business dealings,
thank you very much, Mundungus," said  sharply, as
Ron slumped forward onto the table, howling with laughter.
"Beg pardon, Molly," said Mundungus at once, wiping his eyes and
winking at Harry. "But, you know, Will nicked 'em orf Warty Harris
in the first place so I wasn't really doing nothing wrong -"
"I don't know where you learned about right and wrong, Mundungus,
but you seem to have missed a few crucial lessons," said Mrs.
Weasley coldly.
Fred and George buried their faces in their goblets of butterbeer;
George was hiccuping. For some reason,  threw a very
nasty look at Sirius before getting to her feet and going to fetch a large
rhubarb crumble for pudding. Harry looked round at his godfather.
"Molly doesn't approve of Mundungus," said Sirius in an
undertone.
"How come he's in the Order?" Harry said very quietly.
"He's useful," Sirius muttered. "Knows all the crooks - well, he
would, seeing as he's one himself. But he's also very loyal to DumbleTHE

dore, who helped him out of a tight spot once. It pays to have someone
like Dung around, he hears things we don't. But Molly thinks
inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She hasn't forgiven him
for slipping off duty when he was supposed to be tailing you."
Three helpings of rhubarb crumble and custard later and the waistband
on Harry's jeans was feeling uncomfortably tight (which was
saying something, as the jeans had once been Dudley's). He lay down
his spoon in a lull in the general conversation. Mr. Weasley was leaning
back in his chair, looking replete and relaxed, Tonks was yawning
widely, her nose now back to normal, and Ginny, who had lured
Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting cross-legged on
the floor, rolling butterbeer corks for him to chase.
"Nearly time for bed, I think," said  on a yawn.
"Not just yet, Molly," said Sirius, pushing away his empty plate and
turning to look at Harry. "You know, I'm surprised at you. I thought
the first thing you'd do when you got here would be to start asking
questions about Voldemort."
The atmosphere in the room changed with the rapidity Harry associated
with the arrival of dementors. Where seconds before it had
been sleepily relaxed, it was now alert, even tense. A frisson had gone
around the table at the mention of Voldemort's name. Lupin, who
had been about to take a sip of wine, lowered his goblet slowly, looking
wary.
"I did!" said Harry indignantly. "I asked Ron and Hermione but
they said we're not allowed in the Order, so -"
"And they're quite right," said . "You're too young."
She was sitting bolt upright in her chair, her fists clenched upon its
arms, every trace of drowsiness gone.
"Since when did someone have to be in the Order of the Phoenix to
ask questions?" asked Sirius. "Harry's been trapped in that Muggle
house for a month. He's got the right to know what's been happen -"


"Hang on!" interrupted George loudly.
"How come Harry gets his questions answered?" said Fred angrily.
"We've been trying to get stuff out of you for a month and you
haven't told us a single stinking thing!" said George.
" 'You're too young, you're not in the Order,' " said Fred, in a highpitched
voice that sounded uncannily like his mother's. "Harry's not
even of age!"
"It's not my fault you haven't been told what the Order's doing,"
said Sirius calmly. "That's your parents' decision. Harry, on the other
hand -"
"It's not down to you to decide what's good for Harry!" said Mrs.
Weasley sharply. Her normally kindly face looked dangerous. "You
haven't forgotten what Dumbledore said, I suppose?"
"Which bit?" Sirius asked politely, but with an air as though readying
himself for a fight.
"The bit about not telling Harry more than he needs to know," said
, placing a heavy emphasis on the last three words.
Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George's heads turned from Sirius to
 as though following a tennis rally. Ginny was kneeling
amid a pile of abandoned butterbeer corks, watching the conversation
with her mouth slightly open. Lupin's eyes were fixed on Sirius.
"I don't intend to tell him more than he needs to know, Molly," said
Sirius. "But as he was the one who saw Voldemort come back" (again,
there was a collective shudder around the table at the name), "he has
more right than most to -"
"He's not a member of the Order of the Phoenix!" said Mrs.
Weasley. "He's only fifteen and -"
"- and he's dealt with as much as most in the Order," said Sirius,
"and more than some -"
"No one's denying what he's done!" said , her voice rising,
her fists trembling on the arms of her chair. "But he's still -"
"He's not a child!" said Sirius impatiently.

"He's not an adult either!" said , the color rising in her
cheeks. "He's not James, Sirius!"
"I'm perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly," said Sirius coldly.
"I'm not sure you are!" said . "Sometimes, the way you
talk about him, it's as though you think you've got your best friend
back!"
"What's wrong with that?" said Harry.
"What's wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, however
much you might look like him!" said , her eyes still boring
into Sirius. "You are still at school and adults responsible for you
should not forget it!"
"Meaning I'm an irresponsible godfather?" demanded Sirius, his
voice rising.
"Meaning you've been known to act rashly, Sirius, which is why
Dumbledore keeps reminding you to stay at home and -"
"We'll leave my instructions from Dumbledore out of this, if you
please!" said Sirius loudly.
"Arthur!" said , rounding on her husband. "Arthur,
back me up!"
Mr. Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his glasses and
cleaned them slowly on his robes, not looking at his wife. Only when
he had replaced them carefully on his nose did he say, "Dumbledore
knows the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that Harry will
have to be filled in to a certain extent now that he is staying at headquarters
-"
"Yes, but there's a difference between that and inviting him to ask
whatever he likes!"
"Personally," said Lupin quietly, looking away from Sirius at last, as
 turned quickly to him, hopeful that finally she was about
to get an ally, "I think it better that Harry gets the facts - not all the
facts, Molly, but the general picture - from us, rather than a garbled
version from . . . others."


His expression was mild, but Harry felt sure that Lupin, at least,
knew that some Extendable Ears had survived 's purge.
"Well," said , breathing deeply and looking around
the table for support that did not come, "well . . . I can see I'm going
to be overruled. I'll just say this: Dumbledore must have had his reasons
for not wanting Harry to know too much, and speaking as someone
who has got Harry's best interests at heart -"
"He's not your son," said Sirius quietly.
"He's as good as," said  fiercely. "Who else has he got?"
"He's got me!"
"Yes," said , her lip curling. "The thing is, it's been
rather difficult for you to look after him while you've been locked up
in Azkaban, hasn't it?"
Sirius started to rise from his chair.
"Molly, you're not the only person at this table who cares about
Harry," said Lupin sharply. "Sirius, sit down."
's lower lip was trembling. Sirius sank slowly back into
his chair, his face white.
"I think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this," Lupin continued.
"He's old enough to decide for himself."
"I want to know what's been going on," Harry said at once.
He did not look at . He had been touched by what she
had said about his being as good as a son, but he was also impatient at
her mollycoddling. . . . Sirius was right, he was not a child.
"Very well," said , her voice cracking. "Ginny -
Ron - Hermione - Fred - George - I want you out of this
kitchen, now."
There was instant uproar.
"We're of age!" Fred and George bellowed together.
"If Harry's allowed, why can't I?" shouted Ron.
"Mum, I want to!" wailed Ginny.

"NO!" shouted , standing up, her eyes overbright. "I
absolutely forbid -"
"Molly, you can't stop Fred and George," said Mr. Weasley wearily.
"They are of age -"
"They're still at school -"
"But they're legally adults now," said Mr. Weasley in the same tired
voice.
 was now scarlet in the face.
"I - oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but Ron -"
"Harry'll tell me and Hermione everything you say anyway!" said
Ron hotly. "Won't - won't you?" he added uncertainly, meeting
Harry's eyes.
For a split second, Harry considered telling Ron that he wouldn't
tell him a single word, that he could try a taste of being kept in the
dark and see how he liked it. But the nasty impulse vanished as they
looked at each other.
" 'Course I will," Harry said. Ron and Hermione beamed.
"Fine!" shouted . "Fine! Ginny - BED!"
Ginny did not go quietly. They could hear her raging and storming
at her mother all the way up the stairs, and when she reached the hall
Mrs. Black's earsplitting shrieks were added to the din. Lupin hurried
off to the portrait to restore calm. It was only after he had returned,
closing the kitchen door behind him and taking his seat at the table
again, that Sirius spoke.
"Okay, Harry . . . what do you want to know?"
Harry took a deep breath and asked the question that had been obsessing
him for a month.
"Where's Voldemort? What's he doing? I've been trying to watch
the Muggle news," he said, ignoring the renewed shudders and winces
at the name, "and there hasn't been anything that looks like him yet,
no funny deaths or anything -"


"That's because there haven't been any suspicious deaths yet," said
Sirius, "not as far as we know, anyway. . . . And we know quite a lot."
"More than he thinks we do anyway," said Lupin.
"How come he's stopped killing people?" Harry asked. He knew
that Voldemort had murdered more than once in the last year alone.
"Because he doesn't want to draw attention to himself at the moment,"
said Sirius. "It would be dangerous for him. His comeback
didn't come off quite the way he wanted it to, you see. He messed it
up."
"Or rather, you messed it up for him," said Lupin with a satisfied
smile.
"How?" Harry asked perplexedly.
"You weren't supposed to survive!" said Sirius. "Nobody apart from
his Death Eaters was supposed to know he'd come back. But you survived
to bear witness."
"And the very last person he wanted alerted to his return the moment
he got back was Dumbledore," said Lupin. "And you made sure
Dumbledore knew at once."
"How has that helped?" Harry asked.
"Are you kidding?" said Bill incredulously. "Dumbledore was the
only one You-Know-Who was ever scared of !"
"Thanks to you, Dumbledore was able to recall the Order of the
Phoenix about an hour after Voldemort returned," said Sirius.
"So what's the Order been doing?" said Harry, looking around at
them all.
"Working as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort can't carry out
his plans," said Sirius.
"How d'you know what his plans are?" Harry asked quickly.
"Dumbledore's got a shrewd idea," said Lupin, "and Dumbledore's
shrewd ideas normally turn out to be accurate."
"So what does Dumbledore reckon he's planning?"
"Well, firstly, he wants to build up his army again," said Sirius. "In

the old days he had huge numbers at his command; witches and wizards
he'd bullied or bewitched into following him, his faithful Death
Eaters, a great variety of Dark creatures. You heard him planning to
recruit the giants; well, they'll be just one group he's after. He's certainly
not going to try and take on  with only a
dozen Death Eaters."
"So you're trying to stop him getting more followers?"
"We're doing our best," said Lupin.
"How?"
"Well, the main thing is to try and convince as many people as possible
that You-Know-Who really has returned, to put them on their
guard," said Bill. "It's proving tricky, though."
"Why?"
"Because of the Ministry's attitude," said Tonks. "You saw Cornelius
Fudge after You-Know-Who came back, Harry. Well, he hasn't
shifted his position at all. He's absolutely refusing to believe it's
happened."
"But why?" said Harry desperately. "Why's he being so stupid? If
Dumbledore -"
"Ah, well, you've put your finger on the problem," said Mr. Weasley
with a wry smile. "Dumbledore."
"Fudge is frightened of him, you see," said Tonks sadly.
"Frightened of Dumbledore?" said Harry incredulously.
"Frightened of what he's up to," said Mr. Weasley. "You see, Fudge
thinks Dumbledore's plotting to overthrow him. He thinks Dumbledore
wants to be Minister of Magic."
"But Dumbledore doesn't want -"
"Of course he doesn't," said Mr. Weasley. "He's never wanted the
Minister's job, even though a lot of people wanted him to take it when
Millicent Bagnold retired. Fudge came to power instead, but he's
never quite forgotten how much popular support Dumbledore had,
even though Dumbledore never applied for the job."


"Deep down, Fudge knows Dumbledore's much cleverer than he is,
a much more powerful wizard, and in the early days of his Ministry he
was forever asking Dumbledore for help and advice," said Lupin. "But
it seems that he's become fond of power now, and much more confident.
He loves being Minister of Magic, and he's managed to convince
himself that he's the clever one and Dumbledore's simply stirring up
trouble for the sake of it."
"How can he think that?" said Harry angrily. "How can he think
Dumbledore would just make it all up - that I'd make it all up?"
"Because accepting that Voldemort's back would mean trouble like
the Ministry hasn't had to cope with for nearly fourteen years," said
Sirius bitterly. "Fudge just can't bring himself to face it. It's so much
more comfortable to convince himself Dumbledore's lying to destabilize
him."
"You see the problem," said Lupin. "While the Ministry insists
there is nothing to fear from Voldemort, it's hard to convince people
he's back, especially as they really don't want to believe it in the first
place. What's more, the Ministry's leaning heavily on the Daily
Prophet not to report any of what they're calling Dumbledore's rumormongering,
so most of the Wizarding community are completely unaware
anything's happened, and that makes them easy targets for the
Death Eaters if they're using the Imperius Curse."
"But you're telling people, aren't you?" said Harry, looking around
at Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Bill, Mundungus, Lupin, and Tonks. "You're
letting people know he's back?"
They all smiled humorlessly.
"Well, as everyone thinks I'm a mad mass murderer and the Ministry's
put a ten-thousand-Galleon price on my head, I can hardly stroll
up the street and start handing out leaflets, can I?" said Sirius restlessly.
"And I'm not a very popular dinner guest with most of the community,"
said Lupin. "It's an occupational hazard of being a werewolf."

"Tonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the Ministry if they
started shooting their mouths off," said Sirius, "and it's very important
for us to have spies inside the Ministry, because you can bet Voldemort
will have them."
"We've managed to convince a couple of people, though," said Mr.
Weasley. "Tonks here, for one - she's too young to have been in the
Order of the Phoenix last time, and having Aurors on our side is a
huge advantage - Kingsley Shacklebolt's been a real asset too. He's in
charge of the hunt for Sirius, so he's been feeding the Ministry information
that Sirius is in Tibet."
"But if none of you's putting the news out that Voldemort's
back -" Harry began.
"Who said none of us was putting the news out?" said Sirius. "Why
d'you think Dumbledore's in such trouble?"
"What d'you mean?" Harry asked.
"They're trying to discredit him," said Lupin. "Didn't you see the
Daily Prophet last week? They reported that he'd been voted out of the
Chairmanship of the International Confederation of Wizards because
he's getting old and losing his grip, but it's not true, he was voted out
by Ministry wizards after he made a speech announcing Voldemort's
return. They've demoted him from Chief Warlock on the Wizengamot
- that's the Wizard High Court - and they're talking about
taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, too."
"But Dumbledore says he doesn't care what they do as long as they
don't take him off the Chocolate Frog cards," said Bill, grinning.
"It's no laughing matter," said Mr. Weasley shortly. "If he carries on
defying the Ministry like this, he could end up in Azkaban and the
last thing we want is Dumbledore locked up. While You-Know-Who
knows Dumbledore's out there and wise to what he's up to, he's going
to go cautiously for a while. If Dumbledore's out of the way - well,
You-Know-Who will have a clear field."


"But if Voldemort's trying to recruit more Death Eaters, it's bound
to get out that he's come back, isn't it?" asked Harry desperately.
"Voldemort doesn't march up to people's houses and bang on their
front doors, Harry," said Sirius. "He tricks, jinxes, and blackmails
them. He's well-practiced at operating in secrecy. In any case, gathering
followers is only one thing he's interested in, he's got other plans
too, plans he can put into operation very quietly indeed, and he's concentrating
on them at the moment."
"What's he after apart from followers?" Harry asked swiftly.
He thought he saw Sirius and Lupin exchange the most fleeting of
looks before Sirius said, "Stuff he can only get by stealth."
When Harry continued to look puzzled, Sirius said, "Like a
weapon. Something he didn't have last time."
"When he was powerful before?"
"Yes."
"Like what kind of weapon?" said Harry. "Something worse than
the Avada Kedavra - ?"
"That's enough."
 spoke from the shadows beside the door. Harry had
not noticed her return from taking Ginny upstairs. Her arms were
crossed and she looked furious.
"I want you in bed, now. All of you," she added, looking around at
Fred, George, Ron, and Hermione.
"You can't boss us -" Fred began.
"Watch me," snarled . She was trembling slightly as
she looked at Sirius. "You've given Harry plenty of information. Any
more and you might just as well induct him into the Order
straightaway."
"Why not?" said Harry quickly. "I'll join, I want to join, I want to
fight -"
"No."
It was not  who spoke this time, but Lupin.

"The Order is comprised only of overage wizards," he said. "Wizards
who have left school," he added, as Fred and George opened their
mouths. "There are dangers involved of which you can have no idea,
any of you . . . I think Molly's right, Sirius. We've said enough."
Sirius half-shrugged but did not argue.  beckoned imperiously
to her sons and Hermione. One by one they stood up and
Harry, recognizing defeat, followed suit.


rs. Weasley followed them upstairs looking grim.
"I want you all to go straight to bed, no talking," she
said as they reached the first landing. "We've got a busy day tomorrow.
I expect Ginny's asleep," she added to Hermione, "so try not to wake
her up."
"Asleep, yeah, right," said Fred in an undertone, after Hermione
bade them good night and they were climbing to the next floor. "If
Ginny's not lying awake waiting for Hermione to tell her everything
they said downstairs, then I'm a flobberworm. . . ."
"All right, Ron, Harry," said  on the second landing,
pointing them into their bedroom. "Off to bed with you."
" 'Night," Harry and Ron said to the twins.
"Sleep tight," said Fred, winking.
 closed the door behind Harry with a sharp snap. The
bedroom looked, if anything, even danker and gloomier than it had
on first sight. The blank picture on the wall was now breathing very
slowly and deeply, as though its invisible occupant was asleep. Harry
put on his pajamas, took off his glasses, and climbed into his chilly



bed while Ron threw Owl Treats up on top of the wardrobe to pacify
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around and rustling
their wings restlessly.
"We can't let them out to hunt every night," Ron explained as he
pulled on his maroon pajamas. "Dumbledore doesn't want too many
owls swooping around the square, thinks it'll look suspicious. Oh
yeah . . . I forgot. . . ."
He crossed to the door and bolted it.
"What're you doing that for?"
"Kreacher," said Ron as he turned off the light. "First night I was
here he came wandering in at three in the morning. Trust me, you
don't want to wake up and find him prowling around your room.
Anyway . . ." He got into his bed, settled down under the covers, then
turned to look at Harry in the darkness. Harry could see his outline
by the moonlight filtering in through the grimy window. "What d'you
reckon?"
Harry didn't need to ask what Ron meant.
"Well, they didn't tell us much we couldn't have guessed, did they?"
he said, thinking of all that had been said downstairs. "I mean, all
they've really said is that the Order's trying to stop people joining
Vol -"
There was a sharp intake of breath from Ron.
"- demort," said Harry firmly. "When are you going to start using
his name? Sirius and Lupin do."
Ron ignored this last comment. "Yeah, you're right," he said. "We
already knew nearly everything they told us, from using the Extendable
Ears. The only new bit was -"
Crack.
"OUCH!"
"Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mum'll be back up here."
"You two just Apparated on my knees!"
"Yeah, well, it's harder in the dark -"


Harry saw the blurred outlines of Fred and George leaping down
from Ron's bed. There was a groan of bedsprings and Harry's mattress
descended a few inches as George sat down near his feet.
"So, got there yet?" said George eagerly.
"The weapon Sirius mentioned?" said Harry.
"Let slip, more like," said Fred with relish, now sitting next to Ron.
"We didn't hear about that on the old Extendables, did we?"
"What d'you reckon it is?" said Harry.
"Could be anything," said Fred.
"But there can't be anything worse than the Avada Kedavra curse,
can there?" said Ron. "What's worse than death?"
"Maybe it's something that can kill loads of people at once," suggested
George.
"Maybe it's some particularly painful way of killing people," said
Ron fearfully.
"He's got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain," said Harry. "He
doesn't need anything more efficient than that."
There was a pause and Harry knew that the others, like him, were
wondering what horrors this weapon could perpetrate.
"So who d'you thinks got it now?" asked George.
"I hope it's our side," said Ron, sounding slightly nervous.
"If it is, Dumbledore's probably keeping it," said Fred.
"Where?" said Ron quickly. "Hogwarts?"
"Bet it is!" said George. "That's where he hid the Sorcerer's Stone!"
"A weapon's going to be a lot bigger than the Stone, though!" said
Ron.
"Not necessarily," said Fred.
"Yeah, size is no guarantee of power," said George. "Look at
Ginny."
"What d'you mean?" said Harry.
"You've never been on the receiving end of one of her Bat-Bogey
Hexes, have you?"



"Shhh!" said Fred, half-rising from the bed. "Listen!"
They fell silent. Footsteps were coming up the stairs again.
"Mum," said George, and without further ado there was a loud
crack and Harry felt the weight vanish from the end of his bed. A few
seconds later and they heard the floorboard creak outside their door;
 was plainly listening to see whether they were talking or
not.
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. The floorboard creaked
again and they heard her heading upstairs to check on Fred and
George.
"She doesn't trust us at all, you know," said Ron regretfully.
Harry was sure he would not be able to fall asleep; the evening had
been so packed with things to think about that he fully expected to lie
awake for hours mulling it all over. He wanted to continue talking to
Ron, but  was now creaking back downstairs again, and
once she had gone he distinctly heard others making their way upstairs.
. . . In fact, many-legged creatures were cantering softly up and
down outside the bedroom door, and Hagrid, the Care of Magical
Creatures teacher, was saying, "Beauties, aren' they, eh, Harry? We'll be
studyin' weapons this term. . . ." And Harry saw that the creatures had
cannons for heads and were wheeling to face him. . . . He ducked. . . .
The next thing he knew, he was curled in a warm ball under his
bedclothes, and George's loud voice was filling the room.
"Mum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen and then she needs
you in the drawing room, there are loads more doxies than she thought
and she's found a nest of dead puffskeins under the sofa."
Half an hour later, Harry and Ron, who had dressed and breakfasted
quickly, entered the drawing room, a long, high-ceilinged room
on the first floor with olive-green walls covered in dirty tapestries. The
carpet exhaled little clouds of dust every time someone put their foot
on it and the long, moss-green velvet curtains were buzzing as though
swarming with invisible bees. It was around these that ,


Hermione, Ginny, Fred, and George were grouped, all looking rather
peculiar, as they had tied cloths over their noses and mouths. Each of
them was also holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at
the end.
"Cover your faces and take a spray,"  said to Harry
and Ron the moment she saw them, pointing to two more bottles of
black liquid standing on a spindle-legged table. "It's Doxycide. I've
never seen an infestation this bad - what that house-elf 's been doing
for the last ten years -"
Hermione's face was half concealed by a tea towel but Harry distinctly
saw her throw a reproachful look at  at these
words.
"Kreacher's really old, he probably couldn't manage -"
"You'd be surprised what Kreacher can manage when he wants to,
Hermione," said Sirius, who had just entered the room carrying a
bloodstained bag of what appeared to be dead rats. "I've just been feeding
Buckbeak," he added, in reply to Harry's inquiring look. "I keep him
upstairs in my mother's bedroom. Anyway . . . this writing desk . . ."
He dropped the bag of rats onto an armchair, then bent over to examine
the locked cabinet which, Harry now noticed for the first time,
was shaking slightly.
"Well, Molly, I'm pretty sure this is a boggart," said Sirius, peering
through the keyhole, "but perhaps we ought to let Mad-Eye have a
shifty at it before we let it out - knowing my mother it could be
something much worse."
"Right you are, Sirius," said .
They were both speaking in carefully light, polite voices that told
Harry quite plainly that neither had forgotten their disagreement of
the night before.
A loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, followed at once by
the cacophony of screams and wails that had been triggered the previous
night by Tonks knocking over the umbrella stand.



"I keep telling them not to ring the doorbell!" said Sirius exasperatedly,
hurrying back out of the room. They heard him thundering
down the stairs as Mrs. Black's screeches echoed up through the house
once more: "Stains of dishonor, filthy half-breeds, blood traitors, children
of filth . . ."
"Close the door, please, Harry," said .
Harry took as much time as he dared to close the drawing room
door; he wanted to listen to what was going on downstairs. Sirius had
obviously managed to shut the curtains over his mother's portrait because
she had stopped screaming. He heard Sirius walking down the
hall, then the clattering of the chain on the front door, and then a
deep voice he recognized as Kingsley Shacklebolt's saying, "Hestia's
just relieved me, so she's got Moody's cloak now, thought I'd leave a report
for Dumbledore. . . ."
Feeling 's eyes on the back of his head, Harry regretfully
closed the drawing room door and rejoined the doxy party.
 was bending over to check the page on doxies in
Gilderoy Lockhart's Guide to Household Pests, which was lying open on
the sofa.
"Right, you lot, you need to be careful, because doxies bite and
their teeth are poisonous. I've got a bottle of antidote here, but I'd
rather nobody needed it."
She straightened up, positioned herself squarely in front of the curtains,
and beckoned them all forward.
"When I say the word, start spraying immediately," she said.
"They'll come flying out at us, I expect, but it says on the sprays one
good squirt will paralyze them. When they're immobilized, just throw
them in this bucket."
She stepped carefully out of their line of fire and raised her own
spray. "All right - squirt!"
Harry had been spraying only a few seconds when a fully grown
doxy came soaring out of a fold in the material, shiny beetlelike wings


whirring, tiny needle-sharp teeth bared, its fairylike body covered
with thick black hair and its four tiny fists clenched with fury. Harry
caught it full in the face with a blast of Doxycide; it froze in midair
and fell, with a surprisingly loud thunk, onto the worn carpet below.
Harry picked it up and threw it in the bucket.
"Fred, what are you doing?" said  sharply. "Spray that
at once and throw it away!"
Harry looked around. Fred was holding a struggling doxy between
his forefinger and thumb.
"Right-o," Fred said brightly, spraying the doxy quickly in the face
so that it fainted, but the moment 's back was turned he
pocketed it with a wink.
"We want to experiment with doxy venom for our Skiving Snackboxes,"
George told Harry under his breath.
Deftly spraying two doxies at once as they soared straight for his
nose, Harry moved closer to George and muttered out of the corner
of his mouth, "What are Skiving Snackboxes?"
"Range of sweets to make you ill," George whispered, keeping a
wary eye on 's back. "Not seriously ill, mind, just ill
enough to get you out of a class when you feel like it. Fred and I have
been developing them this summer. They're double-ended, colorcoded
chews. If you eat the orange half of the Puking Pastilles, you
throw up. Moment you've been rushed out of the lesson for the hospital
wing, you swallow the purple half -"
" '- which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to pursue the
leisure activity of your own choice during an hour that would otherwise
have been devoted to unprofitable boredom.' That's what we're
putting in the adverts, anyway," whispered Fred, who had edged over
out of 's line of vision and was now sweeping a few stray
doxies from the floor and adding them to his pocket. "But they still
need a bit of work. At the moment our testers are having a bit of trouble
stopping puking long enough to swallow the purple end."



"Testers?"
"Us," said Fred. "We take it in turns. George did the Fainting Fancies
- we both tried the Nosebleed Nougat -"
"Mum thought we'd been dueling," said George.
"Joke shop still on, then?" Harry muttered, pretending to be adjusting
the nozzle on his spray.
"Well, we haven't had a chance to get premises yet," said Fred,
dropping his voice even lower as  mopped her brow with
her scarf before returning to the attack, "so we're running it as a mailorder
service at the moment. We put advertisements in the Daily
Prophet last week."
"All thanks to you, mate," said George. "But don't worry . . . Mum
hasn't got a clue. She won't read the Daily Prophet anymore, 'cause of
it telling lies about you and Dumbledore."
Harry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to take the thousand-
Galleon prize money he had won in the Triwizard Tournament
to help them realize their ambition to open a joke shop, but he was
still glad to know that his part in furthering their plans was unknown
to , who did not think that running a joke shop was a
suitable career for two of her sons.
The de-doxying of the curtains took most of the morning. It was
past midday when  finally removed her protective scarf,
sank into a sagging armchair, and sprang up again with a cry of disgust,
having sat on the bag of dead rats. The curtains were no longer
buzzing; they hung limp and damp from the intensive spraying; unconscious
doxies lay crammed in the bucket at the foot of them beside
a bowl of their black eggs, at which Crookshanks was now sniffing
and Fred and George were shooting covetous looks.
"I think we'll tackle those after lunch."
 pointed at the dusty glass-fronted cabinets standing
on either side of the mantelpiece. They were crammed with an odd
assortment of objects: a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled


snakeskin, a number of tarnished silver boxes inscribed with languages
Harry could not understand and, least pleasant of all, an ornate crystal
bottle with a large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry was
quite sure was blood.
The clanging doorbell rang again. Everyone looked at .
"Stay here," she said firmly, snatching up the bag of rats as Mrs.
Blacks screeches started up again from down below. "I'll bring up
some sandwiches."
She left the room, closing the door carefully behind her. At once,
everyone dashed over to the window to look down onto the doorstep.
They could see the top of an unkempt gingery head and a stack of precariously
balanced cauldrons.
"Mundungus!" said Hermione. "What's he brought all those cauldrons
for?"
"Probably looking for a safe place to keep them," said Harry. "Isn't
that what he was doing the night he was supposed to be tailing me?
Picking up dodgy cauldrons?"
"Yeah, you're right!" said Fred, as the front door opened; Mundungus
heaved his cauldrons through it and disappeared from view.
"Blimey, Mum won't like that. . . ."
He and George crossed to the door and stood beside it, listening
intently. Mrs. Black's screaming had stopped again.
"Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley," Fred muttered,
frowning with concentration. "Can't hear properly . . . d'you reckon
we can risk the Extendable Ears?"
"Might be worth it," said George. "I could sneak upstairs and get a
pair -"
But at that precise moment there was an explosion of sound from
downstairs that rendered Extendable Ears quite unnecessary. All of
them could hear exactly what  was shouting at the top of
her voice.



"WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN
GOODS!"
"I love  Mum shouting at someone else," said Fred, with a
satisfied smile on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to allow
's voice to permeate the room better. "It makes such a
nice change."
"- COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE HAVEN'T
GOT ENOUGH TO WORRY ABOUT WITHOUT YOU DRAGGING
STOLEN CAULDRONS INTO THE HOUSE -"
"The idiots are letting her get into her stride," said George, shaking
his head. "You've got to head her off early, otherwise she builds up a
head of steam and goes on for hours. And she's been dying to have a
go at Mundungus ever since he sneaked off when he was supposed to
be following you, Harry - and there goes Sirius's mum again -"
's voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from
the portraits in the hall. George made to shut the door to drown the
noise, but before he could do so, a house-elf edged into the room.
Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around its middle, it
was completely naked. It looked very old. Its skin seemed to be several
times too big for it and though it was bald like all house-elves, there
was a quantity of white hair growing out of its large, batlike ears. Its
eyes were a bloodshot and watery gray, and its fleshy nose was large
and rather snoutlike.
The elf took absolutely no notice of Harry and the rest. Acting as
though it could not see them, it shuffled hunchbacked, slowly and
doggedly, toward the far end of the room, muttering under its breath
all the while in a hoarse, deep voice like a bullfrog's, ". . . Smells like
a drain and a criminal to boot, but she's no better, nasty old blood
traitor with her brats messing up my Mistress's house, oh my poor
Mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum they've let in her house,
what would she say to old Kreacher, oh the shame of it, Mudbloods


and werewolves and traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can
he do. . . ."
"Hello, Kreacher," said Fred very loudly, closing the door with a
snap.
The house-elf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, and then gave
a very pronounced and very unconvincing start of surprise.
"Kreacher did not see Young Master," he said, turning around and
bowing to Fred. Still facing the carpet, he added, perfectly audibly,
"Nasty little brat of a blood traitor it is."
"Sorry?" said George. "Didn't catch that last bit."
"Kreacher said nothing," said the elf, with a second bow to George,
adding in a clear undertone, "and there's its twin, unnatural little
beasts they are."
Harry didn't know whether to laugh or not. The elf straightened
up, eyeing them all very malevolently, and apparently convinced that
they could not hear him as he continued to mutter.
". . . and there's the Mudblood, standing there bold as brass, oh if
my Mistress knew, oh how she'd cry, and there's a new boy, Kreacher
doesn't know his name, what is he doing here, Kreacher doesn't
know . . ."
"This is Harry, Kreacher," said Hermione tentatively. "Harry
Potter."
Kreacher's pale eyes widened and he muttered faster and more furiously
than ever.
"The Mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she is my friend,
if Kreacher's Mistress saw him in such company, oh what would she
say -"
"Don't call her a Mudblood!" said Ron and Ginny together, very
angrily.
"It doesn't matter," Hermione whispered, "he's not in his right
mind, he doesn't know what he's -"



"Don't kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what he's saying,"
said Fred, eyeing Kreacher with great dislike.
Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry.
"Is it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see the scar, it must be
true, that's that boy who stopped the Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders
how he did it -"
"Don't we all, Kreacher?" said Fred.
"What do you want anyway?" George asked.
Kreacher's huge eyes darted onto George.
"Kreacher is cleaning," he said evasively.
"A likely story," said a voice behind Harry.
Sirius had come back; he was glowering at the elf from the doorway.
The noise in the hall had abated; perhaps  and
Mundungus had moved their argument down into the kitchen. At the
sight of Sirius, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low bow that
flattened his snoutlike nose on the floor.
"Stand up straight," said Sirius impatiently. "Now, what are you up
to?"
"Kreacher is cleaning," the elf repeated. "Kreacher lives to serve the
noble house of Black -"
"- and it's getting blacker every day, it's filthy," said Sirius.
"Master always liked his little joke," said Kreacher, bowing again,
and continuing in an undertone, "Master was a nasty ungrateful swine
who broke his mother's heart -"
"My mother didn't have a heart, Kreacher," Sirius snapped. "She
kept herself alive out of pure spite."
Kreacher bowed again and said, "Whatever Master says," then
muttered furiously, "Master is not fit to wipe slime from his mother's
boots, oh my poor Mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher
serving him, how she hated him, what a disappointment he was -"
"I asked you what you were up to," said Sirius coldly. "Every time


you show up pretending to be cleaning, you sneak something off to
your room so we can't throw it out."
"Kreacher would never move anything from its proper place in
Master's house," said the elf, then muttered very fast, "Mistress would
never forgive Kreacher if the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries
it's been in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not let
Master and the blood traitors and the brats destroy it -"
"I thought it might be that," said Sirius, casting a disdainful look at
the opposite wall. "She'll have put another Permanent Sticking Charm
on the back of it, I don't doubt, but if I can get rid of it I certainly will.
Now go away, Kreacher."
It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct order; nevertheless,
the look he gave Sirius as he shuffled out past him was redolent
of deepest loathing and he muttered all the way out of the room.
"- comes back from Azkaban ordering Kreacher around, oh my
poor Mistress, what would she say if she saw the house now, scum living
in it, her treasures thrown out, she swore he was no son of hers
and he's back, they say he's a murderer too -"
"Keep muttering and I will be a murderer!" said Sirius irritably, and
he slammed the door shut on the elf.
"Sirius, he's not right in the head," said Hermione pleadingly, "I
don't think he realizes we can hear him."
"He's been alone too long," said Sirius, "taking mad orders from
my mother's portrait and talking to himself, but he was always a foul
little -"
"If you just set him free," said Hermione hopefully, "maybe -"
"We can't set him free, he knows too much about the Order," said
Sirius curtly. "And anyway, the shock would kill him. You suggest to
him that he leaves this house, see how he takes it."
Sirius walked across the room, where the tapestry Kreacher had
been trying to protect hung the length of the wall. Harry and the others
followed.



The tapestry looked immensely old; it was faded and looked as
though doxies had gnawed it in places; nevertheless, the golden thread
with which it was embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show
them a sprawling family tree dating back (as far as Harry could tell) to
the Middle Ages. Large words at the very top of the tapestry read:
 
"Toujours Pur"
"You're not on here!" said Harry, after scanning the bottom of the
tree.
"I used to be there," said Sirius, pointing at a small, round, charred
hole in the tapestry, rather like a cigarette burn. "My sweet old mother
blasted me off after I ran away from home - Kreacher's quite fond of
muttering the story under his breath."
"You ran away from home?"
"When I was about sixteen," said Sirius. "I'd had enough."
"Where did you go?" asked Harry, staring at him.
"Your dad's place," said Sirius. "Your grandparents were really good
about it; they sort of adopted me as a second son. Yeah, I camped out
at your dad's during the school holidays, and then when I was seventeen
I got a place of my own, my Uncle Alphard had left me a decent
bit of gold - he's been wiped off here too, that's probably why -
anyway, after that I looked after myself. I was always welcome at Mr.
and Mrs. Potter's for Sunday lunch, though."
"But . . . why did you . . . ?"
"Leave?" Sirius smiled bitterly and ran a hand through his long, unkempt
hair. "Because I hated the whole lot of them: my parents, with
their pure-blood mania, convinced that to be a Black made you practically
royal . . . my idiot brother, soft enough to believe them . . .
that's him."
Sirius jabbed a finger at the very bottom of the tree, at the name


regulus black. A date of death (some fifteen years previously) followed
the date of birth.
"He was younger than me," said Sirius, "and a much better son, as
I was constantly reminded."
"But he died," said Harry.
"Yeah," said Sirius. "Stupid idiot . . . he joined the Death Eaters."
"You're kidding!"
"Come on, Harry, haven't you seen enough of this house to tell
what kind of wizards my family were?" said Sirius testily.
"Were - were your parents Death Eaters as well?"
"No, no, but believe me, they thought Voldemort had the right
idea, they were all for the purification of the Wizarding race, getting
rid of Muggle-borns and having purebloods in charge. They weren't
alone either, there were quite a few people, before Voldemort showed
his true colors, who thought he had the right idea about things. . . .
They got cold feet when they saw what he was prepared to do to get
power, though. But I bet my parents thought Regulus was a right little
hero for joining up at first."
"Was he killed by an Auror?" Harry asked tentatively.
"Oh no," said Sirius. "No, he was murdered by Voldemort. Or on
Voldemort's orders, more likely, I doubt Regulus was ever important
enough to be killed by Voldemort in person. From what I found out
after he died, he got in so far, then panicked about what he was being
asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you don't just hand in your
resignation to Voldemort. It's a lifetime of service or death."
"Lunch," said 's voice.
She was holding her wand high in front of her, balancing a huge
tray loaded with sandwiches and cake on its tip. She was very red in
the face and still looked angry. The others moved over to her, eager for
some food, but Harry remained with Sirius, who had bent closer to
the tapestry.



"I haven't looked at this for years. There's Phineas Nigellus . . . my
great-great-grandfather, see? Least popular headmaster Hogwarts ever
had . . . and Araminta Meliflua . . . cousin of my mother's . . . tried to
force through a Ministry Bill to make Muggle-hunting legal . . . and
dear Aunt Elladora . . . she started the family tradition of beheading
house-elves when they got too old to carry tea trays . . . of course,
anytime the family produced someone halfway decent they were disowned.
I see Tonks isn't on here. Maybe that's why Kreacher won't
take orders from her - he's supposed to do whatever anyone in the
family asks him. . . ."
"You and Tonks are related?" Harry asked, surprised.
"Oh yeah, her mother, Andromeda, was my favorite cousin," said
Sirius, examining the tapestry carefully. "No, Andromeda's not on here
either, look -"
He pointed to another small round burn mark between two names,
Bellatrix and Narcissa.
"Andromeda's sisters are still here because they made lovely, respectable
pure-blood marriages, but Andromeda married a Muggleborn,
Ted Tonks, so -"
Sirius mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly.
Harry, however, did not laugh; he was too busy staring at the names
to the right of Andromeda's burn mark. A double line of gold
embroidery linked Narcissa Black with Lucius Malfoy, and a single
vertical gold line from their names led to the name Draco.
"You're related to the Malfoys!"
"The pure-blood families are all interrelated," said Sirius. "If you're
only going to let your sons and daughters marry purebloods your
choice is very limited, there are hardly any of us left. Molly and I are
cousins by marriage and Arthur's something like my second cousin
once removed. But there's no point looking for them on here - if
ever a family was a bunch of blood traitors it's the Weasleys."


But Harry was now looking at the name to the left of Andromeda's
burn: Bellatrix Black, which was connected by a double line to Rodolphus
Lestrange.
"Lestrange . . ." Harry said aloud. The name had stirred something
in his ; he knew it from somewhere, but for a moment he
couldn't think where, though it gave him an odd, creeping sensation
in the pit of his stomach.
"They're in Azkaban," said Sirius shortly.
Harry looked at him curiously.
"Bellatrix and her husband Rodolphus came in with Barty Crouch,
Junior," said Sirius in the same brusque voice. "Rodolphus's brother,
Rabastan, was with them too."
And Harry remembered: He had seen Bellatrix Lestrange inside
Dumbledore's Pensieve, the strange device in which thoughts and
memories could be stored: a tall dark woman with heavy-lidded eyes,
who had stood at her trial and proclaimed her continuing allegiance to
Lord Voldemort, her pride that she had tried to find him after his
downfall and her conviction that she would one day be rewarded for
her loyalty.
"You never said she was your -"
"Does it matter if she's my cousin?" snapped Sirius. "As far as I'm
concerned, they're not my family. She's certainly not my family. I
haven't seen her since I was your age, unless you count a glimpse of her
coming in to Azkaban. D'you think I'm proud of having relatives like
her?"
"Sorry," said Harry quickly, "I didn't mean - I was just surprised,
that's all -"
"It doesn't matter, don't apologize," Sirius mumbled at once. He
turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets. "I don't
like being back here," he said, staring across the drawing room. "I
never thought I'd be stuck in this house again."
Harry understood completely. He knew how he would feel if



forced, when he was grown up and thought he was free of the place
forever, to return and live at number four, Privet Drive.
"It's ideal for headquarters, of course," Sirius said. "My father put
every security measure known to Wizard-kind on it when he lived
here. It's Unplottable, so Muggles could never come and call - as if
they'd have wanted to - and now Dumbledore's added his protection,
you'd be hard put to find a safer house anywhere. Dumbledore's
Secret-Keeper for the Order, you know - nobody can find headquarters
unless he tells them personally where it is - that note Moody
showed you last night, that was from Dumbledore. . . ." Sirius gave a
short, barklike laugh. "If my parents could see the use it was being put
to now . . . well, my mother's portrait should give you some idea. . . ."
He scowled for a moment, then sighed.
"I wouldn't mind if I could just get out occasionally and do something
useful. I've asked Dumbledore whether I can escort you to your
 - as Snuffles, obviously - so I can give you a bit of moral
support, what d'you think?"
Harry felt as though his stomach had sunk through the dusty
carpet. He had not thought about  once since dinner the
previous evening; in the excitement of being back with the people he
liked best, of  everything that was going on, it had completely
flown his mind. At Sirius's words, however, the crushing sense of
dread returned to him. He stared at Hermione and the Weasleys, all
tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he would feel if they
went back to Hogwarts without him.
"Don't worry," Sirius said. Harry looked up and realized that Sirius
had been watching him. "I'm sure they're going to clear you, there's
definitely something in the International Statute of Secrecy about being
allowed to use magic to save your own life."
"But if they do expel me," said Harry, quietly, "can I come back
here and live with you?"
Sirius smiled sadly.


"We'll see."
"I'd feel a lot better about  if I knew I didn't have to go
back to the Dursleys," Harry pressed him.
"They must be bad if you prefer this place," said Sirius gloomily.
"Hurry up, you two, or there won't be any food left," 
called.
Sirius heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at the tapestry,
and he and Harry went to join the others.
Harry tried his best not to think about  while they emptied
the glass cabinets that afternoon. Fortunately for him, it was a job
that required a lot of concentration, as many of the objects in there
seemed very reluctant to leave their dusty shelves. Sirius sustained a
bad bite from a silver snuffbox; within seconds, his bitten hand had
developed an unpleasant crusty covering like a tough brown glove.
"It's okay," he said, examining the hand with interest before tapping
it lightly with his wand and restoring its skin to normal, "must
be Wartcap powder in there."
He threw the box aside into the sack where they were depositing
the debris from the cabinets; Harry saw George wrap his own hand
carefully in a cloth moments later and sneak the box into his already
doxy-filled pocket.
They found an unpleasant-looking silver instrument, something
like a many-legged pair of tweezers, which scuttled up Harry's arm
like a spider when he picked it up, and attempted to puncture his
skin; Sirius seized it and smashed it with a heavy book entitled
Nature's Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. There was a musical box
that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling tune when wound, and they all
found themselves becoming curiously weak and sleepy until Ginny
had the sense to slam the lid shut; also a heavy locket that none of
them could open, a number of ancient seals and, in a dusty box, an
Order of Merlin, First Class, that had been awarded to Sirius's grandfather
for "Services to the Ministry."



"It means he gave them a load of gold," said Sirius contemptuously,
throwing the medal into the rubbish sack.
Several times, Kreacher sidled into the room and attempted to
smuggle things away under his loincloth, muttering horrible curses
every time they caught him at it. When Sirius wrested a large golden
ring bearing the Black crest from his grip Kreacher actually burst into
furious tears and left the room sobbing under his breath and calling
Sirius names Harry had never heard before.
"It was my father's," said Sirius, throwing the ring into the sack.
"Kreacher wasn't quite as devoted to him as to my mother, but I still
caught him snogging a pair of my father's old trousers last week."
 kept them all working very hard over the next few days.
The drawing room took three days to decontaminate; finally the only
undesirable things left in it were the tapestry of the Black family tree,
which resisted all their attempts to remove it from the wall, and the
rattling writing desk; Moody had not dropped by headquarters yet, so
they could not be sure what was inside it.
They moved from the drawing room to a dining room on the
ground floor where they found spiders large as saucers lurking in the
dresser (Ron left the room hurriedly to make a cup of tea and did not
return for an hour and a half). The china, which bore the Black crest
and motto, was all thrown unceremoniously into a sack by Sirius, and
the same fate met a set of old photographs in tarnished silver frames,
all of whose occupants squealed shrilly as the glass covering them
smashed.
Snape might refer to their work as "cleaning," but in Harry's opinion
they were really waging war on the house, which was putting up a
very good fight, aided and abetted by Kreacher. The house-elf kept
appearing wherever they were congregated, his muttering becoming
more and more offensive as he attempted to remove anything he
could from the rubbish sacks. Sirius went as far as to threaten him


with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery stare and said,
"Master must do as Master wishes," before turning away and muttering
very loudly, "but Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because
Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is plotting against the
Dark Lord, yes, with these Mudbloods and traitors and scum. . . ."
At which Sirius, ignoring Hermione's protests, seized Kreacher by
the back of his loincloth and threw him bodily from the room.
The doorbell rang several times a day, which was the cue for Sirius's
mother to start shrieking again, and for Harry and the others to attempt
to eavesdrop on the visitor, though they gleaned very little from
the brief glimpses and snatches of conversation they were able to
sneak before  recalled them to their tasks. Snape flitted in
and out of the house several times more, though to Harry's relief they
never came face-to-face; he also caught sight of his Transfiguration
teacher, Professor McGonagall, looking very odd in a Muggle dress
and coat, though she also seemed too busy to linger.
Sometimes, however, the visitors stayed to help; Tonks joined them
for a memorable afternoon in which they found a murderous old
ghoul lurking in an upstairs toilet, and Lupin, who was staying in the
house with Sirius but who left it for long periods to do mysterious
work for the Order, helped them repair a grandfather clock that had
developed the unpleasant habit of shooting heavy bolts at passersby.
Mundungus redeemed himself slightly in 's eyes by rescuing
Ron from an ancient set of purple robes that had tried to strangle
him when he removed them from their wardrobe.
Despite the fact that he was still sleeping badly, still having dreams
about corridors and locked doors that made his scar prickle, Harry
was managing to have fun for the first time all summer. As long as he
was busy he was happy; when the action abated, however, whenever
he dropped his guard, or lay exhausted in bed watching blurred shadows
move across the ceiling, the thought of the looming Ministry



 returned to him. Fear jabbed at his insides like needles as he
wondered what was going to happen to him if he was expelled. The
idea was so terrible that he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to
Ron and Hermione, who, though he often saw them whispering together
and casting anxious looks in his direction, followed his lead in
not mentioning it. Sometimes he could not prevent his imagination
showing him a faceless Ministry official who was snapping his wand
in two and ordering him back to the Dursleys' . . . but he would not
go. He was determined on that. He would come back here to Grimmauld
Place and live with Sirius.
He felt as though a brick had dropped into his stomach when Mrs.
Weasley turned to him during dinner on Wednesday evening and said
quietly, "I've ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, Harry,
and I want you to wash your hair tonight too. A good first impression
can work wonders."
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny all stopped talking and
looked over at him. Harry nodded and tried to keep eating his chops,
but his mouth had become so dry he could not chew.
"How am I getting there?" he asked , trying to sound
unconcerned.
"Arthur's taking you to work with him," said  gently.
Mr. Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the table.
"You can wait in my office until it's time for ," he said.
Harry looked over at Sirius, but before he could ask the question,
 had answered it.
"Professor Dumbledore doesn't think it's a good idea for Sirius to
go with you, and I must say I -"
"- think he's quite right," said Sirius through clenched teeth.
 pursed her lips.
"When did Dumbledore tell you that?" Harry said, staring at
Sirius.


"He came last night, when you were in bed," said Mr. Weasley.
Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. Harry dropped his
own eyes to his plate. The thought that Dumbledore had been in the
house on the eve of his  and not asked to see him made him
feel, if that were possible, even worse.


arry awoke at half-past five the next morning as abruptly and
completely as if somebody had yelled in his ear. For a few
moments he lay immobile as the prospect of  filled every
tiny particle of his brain, then, unable to bear it, he leapt out of bed
and put on his glasses.  had laid out his freshly laundered
jeans and T-shirt at the foot of his bed. Harry scrambled into them.
The blank picture on the wall sniggered again.
Ron was lying sprawled on his back with his mouth wide open, fast
asleep. He did not stir as Harry crossed the room, stepped out onto
the landing, and closed the door softly behind him. Trying not to
think of the next time he would see Ron, when they might no longer
be fellow students at Hogwarts, Harry walked quietly down the stairs,
past the heads of Kreacher's ancestors, and into the kitchen.
He had expected it to be empty, but it was not. When he reached
the door he heard the soft rumble of voices on the other side and
when he pushed it open he saw Mr. and , Sirius, Lupin,
and Tonks sitting there almost as though they were waiting for him.


All were fully dressed except , who was wearing a quilted,
purple dressing gown. She leapt to her feet the moment he entered.
"Breakfast," she said as she pulled out her wand and hurried over to
the fire.
"M-m-morning, Harry," yawned Tonks. Her hair was blonde and
curly this morning. "Sleep all right?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
"I've b-b-been up all night," she said, with another shuddering
yawn. "Come and sit down. . . ."
She drew out a chair, knocking over the one beside it in the process.
"What do you want, Harry?"  called. "Porridge?
Muffins? Kippers? Bacon and eggs? Toast?"
"Just - just toast, thanks," said Harry.
Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, "What were you saying
about Scrimgeour?"
"Oh . . . yeah . . . well, we need to be a bit more careful, he's been
asking Kingsley and me funny questions. . . ."
Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to join in the
conversation. His insides were squirming.  placed a couple
of pieces of toast and marmalade in front of him; he tried to eat,
but it was like chewing carpet.  sat down on his other
side and started fussing with his T-shirt, tucking in the label and
smoothing out creases across the shoulders. He wished she wouldn't.
". . . and I'll have to tell Dumbledore I can't do night duty tomorrow,
I'm just t-t-too tired," Tonks finished, yawning hugely again.
"I'll cover for you," said Mr. Weasley. "I'm okay, I've got a report to
finish anyway. . . ."
Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizard's robes but a pair of pinstriped
trousers and an old bomber jacket. He turned from Tonks to
Harry.
"How are you feeling?"

Harry shrugged.
"It'll all be over soon," Mr. Weasley said bracingly. "In a few hours'
time you'll be cleared."
Harry said nothing.
"'s on my floor, in Amelia Bones's office. She's Head of
 of Magical Law Enforcement and she's the one who'll
be questioning you."
"Amelia Bones is okay, Harry," said Tonks earnestly. "She's fair,
she'll hear you out."
Harry nodded, still unable to think of anything to say.
"Don't lose your temper," said Sirius abruptly. "Be polite and stick
to the facts."
Harry nodded again.
"The law's on your side," said Lupin quietly. "Even underage wizards
are allowed to use magic in life-threatening situations."
Something very cold trickled down the back of Harry's neck; for a
moment he thought someone was putting a Disillusionment Charm
on him again, then he realized that  was attacking his
hair with a wet comb. She pressed hard on the top of his head.
"Doesn't it ever lie flat?" she said desperately.
Harry shook his head.
Mr. Weasley checked his watch and looked up at Harry.
"I think we'll go now," he said. "We're a bit early, but I think you'll
be better off there than hanging around here."
"Okay," said Harry automatically, dropping his toast and getting to
his feet.
"You'll be all right, Harry," said Tonks, patting him on the arm.
"Good luck," said Lupin. "I'm sure it will be fine."
"And if it's not," said Sirius grimly, "I'll see to Amelia Bones for
you. . . ."
Harry smiled weakly.  hugged him.


"We've all got our fingers crossed," she said.
"Right," said Harry. "Well . . . see you later then."
He followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall. He could hear
Sirius's mother grunting in her sleep behind her curtains. Mr. Weasley
unbolted the door and they stepped out into the cold, gray dawn.
"You don't normally walk to work, do you?" Harry asked him, as
they set off briskly around the square.
"No, I usually Apparate," said Mr. Weasley, "but obviously you can't,
and I think it's best we arrive in a thoroughly non-magical fashion . . .
makes a better impression, given what you're being disciplined for. . . ."
Mr. Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they walked. Harry
knew it was clenched around his wand. The run-down streets were
almost deserted, but when they arrived at the miserable little Underground
station they found it already full of early morning commuters.
As ever when he found himself in close proximity to Muggles going
about their daily business, Mr. Weasley was hard put to contain his
enthusiasm.
"Simply fabulous," he whispered, indicating the automatic ticket
machines. "Wonderfully ingenious."
"They're out of order," said Harry, pointing at the sign.
"Yes, but even so . . ." said Mr. Weasley, beaming fondly at them.
They bought their tickets instead from a sleepy-looking guard
(Harry handled the transaction, as Mr. Weasley was not very good
with Muggle money) and five minutes later they were boarding an
Underground train that rattled them off toward the center of London.
Mr. Weasley kept anxiously checking and rechecking the Underground
map above the windows.
"Four stops, Harry . . . three stops left now . . . two stops to go,
Harry . . ."
They got off at a station in the very heart of London, swept from
the train in a tide of besuited men and women carrying briefcases. Up

the escalator they went, through the ticket barrier (Mr. Weasley
delighted with the way the stile swallowed his ticket), and emerged
onto a broad street lined with imposing-looking buildings, already
full of traffic.
"Where are we?" said Mr. Weasley blankly, and for one heartstopping
moment Harry thought they had gotten off at the wrong station
despite Mr. Weasley's continual references to the map; but a
second later he said, "Ah yes . . . this way, Harry," and led him down
a side road.
"Sorry," he said, "but I never come by train and it all looks rather
different from a Muggle perspective. As a matter of fact I've never
even used the visitor's entrance before."
The farther they walked, the smaller and less imposing the buildings
became, until finally they reached a street that contained several
rather shabby-looking offices, a pub, and an overflowing dumpster.
Harry had expected a rather more impressive location for the Ministry
of Magic.
"Here we are," said Mr. Weasley brightly, pointing at an old red
telephone box, which was missing several panes of glass and stood before
a heavily graffittied wall. "After you, Harry."
He opened the telephone box door.
Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this was about. Mr.
Weasley folded himself in beside Harry and closed the door. It was a
tight fit; Harry was jammed against the telephone apparatus, which
was hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal had tried to
rip it off. Mr. Weasley reached past Harry for the receiver.
"Mr. Weasley, I think this might be out of order too," Harry said.
"No, no, I'm sure it's fine," said Mr. Weasley, holding the receiver
above his head and peering at the dial. "Let's see . . . six . . ." he dialed
the number, "two . . . four . . . and another four . . . and another
two . . ."


As the dial whirred smoothly back into place, a cool female voice
sounded inside the telephone box, not from the receiver in Mr.
Weasley's hand, but as loudly and plainly as though an invisible
woman were standing right beside them.
"Welcome to . Please state your name and
business."
"Er . . ." said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether he should talk
into the receiver or not; he compromised by holding the mouthpiece
to his ear, "Arthur Weasley, Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, here
to escort Harry Potter, who has been asked to attend a disciplinary
. . . ."
"Thank you," said the cool female voice. "Visitor, please take the
badge and attach it to the front of your robes."
There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw something slide out
of the metal chute where returned coins usually appeared. He picked
it up: It was a square silver badge with Harry Potter, Disciplinary 
on it. He pinned it to the front of his T-shirt as the female voice
spoke again.
"Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and
present your wand for registration at the security desk, which is located
at the far end of the Atrium."
The floor of the telephone box shuddered. They were sinking
slowly into the ground. Harry watched apprehensively as the pavement
rose up past the glass windows of the telephone box until darkness
closed over their heads. Then he could see nothing at all; he could
only hear a dull grinding noise as the telephone box made its way
down through the earth. After about a minute, though it felt much
longer to Harry, a chink of golden light illuminated his feet and,
widening, rose up his body, until it hit him in the face and he had to
blink to stop his eyes from watering.
" wishes you a pleasant day," said the
woman's voice.

The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr. Weasley
stepped out of it, followed by Harry, whose mouth had fallen open.
They were standing at one end of a very long and splendid hall with a
highly polished, dark wood floor. The peacock-blue ceiling was inlaid
with gleaming golden symbols that were continually moving and changing
like some enormous heavenly notice board. The walls on each side
were paneled in shiny dark wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into
them. Every few seconds a witch or wizard would emerge from one of
the left-hand fireplaces with a soft whoosh; on the right-hand side, short
queues of wizards were forming before each fireplace, waiting to depart.
Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of golden statues,
larger than life-size, stood in the middle of a circular pool. Tallest of
them all was a noble-looking wizard with his wand pointing straight
up in the air. Grouped around him were a beautiful witch, a centaur,
a goblin, and a house-elf. The last three were all looking adoringly up
at the witch and wizard. Glittering jets of water were flying from the
ends of the two wands, the point of the centaur's arrow, the tip of
the goblin's hat, and each of the house-elf 's ears, so that the tinkling
hiss of falling water was added to the pops and cracks of Apparators
and the clatter of footsteps as hundreds of witches and wizards, most
of whom were wearing glum, early-morning looks, strode toward a set
of golden gates at the far end of the hall.
"This way," said Mr. Weasley.
They joined the throng, wending their way between the Ministry
workers, some of whom were carrying tottering piles of parchment,
others battered briefcases, still others reading the Daily Prophet as they
walked. As they passed the fountain Harry saw silver Sickles and
bronze Knuts glinting up at him from the bottom of the pool. A
small, smudged sign beside it read:
All proceeds from the Fountain of Magical Brethren will be given to
  


If I'm not expelled from Hogwarts, I'll put in ten Galleons, Harry
found himself thinking desperately.
"Over here, Harry," said Mr. Weasley, and they stepped out of the
stream of Ministry employees heading for the golden gates, toward a
desk on the left, over which hung a sign saying security. A badly
shaven wizard in peacock-blue robes looked up as they approached
and put down his Daily Prophet.
"I'm escorting a visitor," said Mr. Weasley, gesturing toward Harry.
"Step over here," said the wizard in a bored voice.
Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a long golden
rod, thin and flexible as a car aerial, and passed it up and down Harry's
front and back.
"Wand," grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting down the
golden instrument and holding out his hand.
Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it onto a strange
brass instrument, which looked something like a set of scales with
only one dish. It began to vibrate. A narrow strip of parchment came
speeding out of a slit in the base. The wizard tore this off and read the
writing upon it.
"Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, been in use four years. That
correct?"
"Yes," said Harry nervously.
"I keep this," said the wizard, impaling the slip of parchment on a
small brass spike. "You get this back," he added, thrusting the wand at
Harry.
"Thank you."
"Hang on. . . ." said the wizard slowly.
His eyes had darted from the silver visitor's badge on Harry's chest
to his forehead.
"Thank you, Eric," said Mr. Weasley firmly, and grasping Harry by
the shoulder, he steered him away from the desk and back into the
stream of wizards and witches walking through the golden gates.


Jostled slightly by the crowd, Harry followed Mr. Weasley through
the gates into the smaller hall beyond, where at least twenty lifts stood
behind wrought golden grilles. Harry and Mr. Weasley joined the
crowd around one of them. A big, bearded wizard holding a large
cardboard box stood nearby. The box was emitting rasping noises.
"All right, Arthur?" said the wizard, nodding at Mr. Weasley.
"What've you got there, Bob?" asked Mr. Weasley, looking at the
box.
"We're not sure," said the wizard seriously. "We thought it was a
bog-standard chicken until it started breathing fire. Looks like a serious
breach of the Ban on Experimental Breeding to me."
With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in front of
them; the golden grille slid back and Harry and Mr. Weasley moved inside
it with the rest of the crowd. Harry found himself jammed against
the back wall of the lift. Several witches and wizards were looking at
him curiously; he stared at his feet to avoid catching anyone's eye, flattening
his fringe as he did so. The grilles slid shut with a crash and the
lift ascended slowly, chains rattling all the while, while the same cool
female voice Harry had heard in the telephone box rang out again.
"Level seven, Department of Magical Games and Sports, incorporating
the British and Irish Quidditch League Headquarters, Official
Gobstones Club, and Ludicrous Patents Office."
The lift doors opened; Harry glimpsed an untidy-looking corridor,
with various posters of Quidditch teams tacked lopsidedly on the
walls; one of the wizards in the lift, who was carrying an armful of
broomsticks, extricated himself with difficulty and disappeared down
the corridor. The doors closed, the lift juddered upward again, and the
woman's voice said, "Level six, Department of Magical Transport, incorporating
the Floo Network Authority, Broom Regulatory Control,
Portkey Office, and Apparation Test Center."
Once again the lift doors opened and four or five witches and
wizards got out; at the same time, several paper airplanes swooped


into the lift. Harry stared up at them as they flapped idly around
above his head; they were a pale violet color and he could see ministry
of magic stamped along the edges of their wings.
"Just Interdepartmental memos," Mr. Weasley muttered to him.
"We used to use owls, but the mess was unbelievable . . . droppings all
over the desks . . ."
As they clattered upward again, the memos flapped around the
swaying lamp in the lift's ceiling.
"Level five, Department of International Magical Cooperation, incorporating
the International Magical Trading Standards Body, the
International Magical Office of Law, and the International Confederation
of Wizards, British Seats."
When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed out with a few
more witches and wizards, but several more memos zoomed in, so that
the light from the lamp in the ceiling flickered and flashed as they
darted around it.
"Level four, Department for the Regulation and Control of
Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, Being, and Spirit Divisions,
Goblin Liaison Office, and Pest Advisory Bureau."
" 'S'cuse," said the wizard carrying the fire-breathing chicken and
he left the lift pursued by a little flock of memos. The doors clanged
shut yet again.
"Level three, Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes,
including the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad, Obliviator Headquarters,
and Muggle-Worthy Excuse Committee."
Everybody left the lift on this floor except Mr. Weasley, Harry, and
a witch who was reading an extremely long piece of parchment that
was trailing on the ground. The remaining memos continued to soar
around the lamp as the lift juddered upward again, and then the doors
opened and the voice said, "Level two, Department of Magical Law
Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror
Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services."

"This is us, Harry," said Mr. Weasley, and they followed the witch
out of the lift into a corridor lined with doors. "My office is on the
other side of the floor."
"Mr. Weasley," said Harry, as they passed a window through which
sunlight was streaming, "aren't we underground?"
"Yes, we are," said Mr. Weasley, "those are enchanted windows;
Magical Maintenance decide what weather we're getting every day.
We had two months of hurricanes last time they were angling for a
pay raise. . . . Just round here, Harry."
They turned a corner, walked through a pair of heavy oak doors,
and emerged in a cluttered, open area divided into cubicles, which
were buzzing with talk and laughter. Memos were zooming in and out
of cubicles like miniature rockets. A lopsided sign on the nearest cubicle
read auror headquarters.
Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as they passed.
The Aurors had covered their cubicle walls with everything from pictures
of wanted wizards and photographs of their families, to posters
of their favorite Quidditch teams and articles from the Daily Prophet.
A scarlet-robed man with a ponytail longer than Bill's was sitting with
his boots up on his desk, dictating a report to his quill. A little farther
along, a witch with a patch over her eye was talking over the top of her
cubicle wall to Kingsley Shacklebolt.
"Morning, Weasley," said Kingsley carelessly, as they drew nearer.
"I've been wanting a word with you, have you got a second?"
"Yes, if it really is a second," said Mr. Weasley, "I'm in rather a
hurry."
They were talking to each other as though they hardly knew each
other, and when Harry opened his mouth to say hello to Kingsley, Mr.
Weasley stood on his foot. They followed Kingsley along the row and
into the very last cubicle.
Harry received a slight shock; Sirius's face was blinking down at
him from every direction. Newspaper cuttings and old photographs


- even the one of Sirius being best man at the Potters' wedding -
papered the walls. The only Sirius-free space was a map of the world
in which little red pins were glowing like jewels.
"Here," said Kingsley brusquely to Mr. Weasley, shoving a sheaf of
parchment into his hand, "I need as much information as possible on
flying Muggle vehicles sighted in the last twelve months. We've received
information that Black might still be using his old motorcycle."
Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, in a whisper,
"Give him the magazine, he might find it interesting." Then he said in
normal tones, "And don't take too long, Weasley, the delay on that
firelegs report held our investigation up for a month."
"If you had read my report you would know that the term is
'firearms,' " said Mr. Weasley coolly. "And I'm afraid you'll have to wait
for information on motorcycles, we're extremely busy at the moment."
He dropped his voice and said, "If you can get away before
seven, Molly's making meatballs."
He beckoned to Harry and led him out of Kingsley's cubicle,
through a second set of oak doors, into another passage, turned left,
marched along another corridor, turned right into a dimly lit and distinctly
shabby corridor, and finally reached a dead end, where a door
on the left stood ajar, revealing a broom cupboard, and a door on the
right bore a tarnished brass plaque reading misuse of muggle
artifacts.
Mr. Weasley's dingy office seemed to be slightly smaller than the
broom cupboard. Two desks had been crammed inside it and there was
barely room to move around them because of all the overflowing filing
cabinets lining the walls, on top of which were tottering piles of files.
The little wall space available bore witness to Mr. Weasley's obsessions;
there were several posters of cars, including one of a dismantled engine,
two illustrations of postboxes he seemed to have cut out of Muggle
children's books, and a diagram showing how to wire a plug.
Sitting on top of Mr. Weasley's overflowing in-tray was an old

toaster that was hiccuping in a disconsolate way and a pair of empty
leather gloves that were twiddling their thumbs. A photograph of the
Weasley family stood beside the in-tray. Harry noticed that Percy appeared
to have walked out of it.
"We haven't got a window," said Mr. Weasley apologetically, taking
off his bomber jacket and placing it on the back of his chair. "We've
asked, but they don't seem to think we need one. Have a seat, Harry,
doesn't look as if Perkins is in yet."
Harry squeezed himself into the chair behind Perkins's desk while
Mr. Weasley rifled through the sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shacklebolt
had given him.
"Ah," he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a magazine entitled
The Quibbler from its midst, "yes . . ." He flicked through it.
"Yes, he's right, I'm sure Sirius will find that very amusing - oh dear,
what's this now?"
A memo had just zoomed in through the open door and fluttered
to rest on top of the hiccuping toaster. Mr. Weasley unfolded it and
read aloud, " 'Third regurgitating public toilet reported in Bethnal
Green, kindly investigate immediately.' This is getting ridiculous. . . ."
"A regurgitating toilet?"
"Anti-Muggle pranksters," said Mr. Weasley, frowning. "We had
two last week, one in Wimbledon, one in Elephant and Castle. Muggles
are pulling the flush and instead of everything disappearing -
well, you can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those - those
pumbles, I think they're called - you know, the ones who mend pipes
and things -"
"Plumbers?"
"- exactly, yes, but of course they're flummoxed. I only hope we
can catch whoever's doing it."
"Will it be Aurors who catch them?"
"Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, it'll be the ordinary Magical
Law Enforcement Patrol - ah, Harry, this is Perkins."


A stooped, timid-looking old wizard with fluffy white hair had just
entered the room, panting.
"Oh Arthur!" he said desperately, without looking at Harry.
"Thank goodness, I didn't know what to do for the best, whether to
wait here for you or not, I've just sent an owl to your home but you've
obviously missed it - an urgent message came ten minutes ago -"
"I know about the regurgitating toilet," said Mr. Weasley.
"No, no, it's not the toilet, it's the Potter boy's  - they've
changed the time and venue - it starts at eight o'clock now and it's
down in old Courtroom Ten -"
"Down in old - but they told me - Merlin's beard -"
Mr. Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp, and leapt from his
chair.
"Quick, Harry, we should have been there five minutes ago!"
Perkins flattened himself against the filing cabinets as Mr. Weasley
left the office at a run, Harry on his heels.
"Why have they changed the time?" Harry said breathlessly as they
hurtled past the Auror cubicles; people poked out their heads and
stared as they streaked past. Harry felt as though he had left all his insides
back at Perkins's desk.
"I've no idea, but thank goodness we got here so early, if you'd
missed it it would have been catastrophic!"
Mr. Weasley skidded to a halt beside the lifts and jabbed impatiently
at the down button.
"Come ON!"
The lift clattered into view and they hurried inside. Every time it
stopped Mr. Weasley cursed furiously and pummelled the number
nine button.
"Those courtrooms haven't been used in years," said Mr. Weasley
angrily. "I can't think why they're doing it down there - unless -
but no . . ."


A plump witch carrying a smoking goblet entered the lift at that
moment, and Mr. Weasley did not elaborate.
"The Atrium," said the cool female voice and the golden grilles slid
open, showing Harry a distant glimpse of the golden statues in the
fountain. The plump witch got out and a sallow-skinned wizard with
a very mournful face got in.
"Morning, Arthur," he said in a sepulchral voice as the lift began to
descend. "Don't often see you down here. . . ."
"Urgent business, Bode," said Mr. Weasley, who was bouncing on
the balls of his feet and throwing anxious looks over at Harry.
"Ah, yes," said Bode, surveying Harry unblinkingly. "Of course."
Harry barely had emotion to spare for Bode, but his unfaltering
gaze did not make him feel any more comfortable.
"Department ," said the cool female voice, and left it at
that.
"Quick, Harry," said Mr. Weasley as the lift doors rattled open, and
they sped up a corridor that was quite different from those above. The
walls were bare; there were no windows and no doors apart from a
plain black one set at the very end of the corridor. Harry expected
them to go through it, but instead Mr. Weasley seized him by the arm
and dragged him to the left, where there was an opening leading to a
flight of steps.
"Down here, down here," panted Mr. Weasley, taking two steps at
a time. "The lift doesn't even come down this far . . . why they're doing
it there . . ."
They reached the bottom of the steps and ran along yet another
corridor, which bore a great resemblance to that which led to Snape's
dungeon at Hogwarts, with rough stone walls and torches in brackets.
The doors they passed here were heavy wooden ones with iron bolts
and keyholes.
"Courtroom . . . ten . . . I think . . . we're nearly . . . yes."


Mr. Weasley stumbled to a halt outside a grimy dark door with an
immense iron lock and slumped against the wall, clutching at a stitch
in his chest.
"Go on," he panted, pointing his thumb at the door. "Get in
there."
"Aren't - aren't you coming with - ?"
"No, no, I'm not allowed. Good luck!"
Harry's heart was beating a violent tattoo against his Adam's apple.
He swallowed hard, turned the heavy iron door handle, and stepped
inside the courtroom.



arry gasped; he could not help himself. The large dungeon he
had entered was horribly familiar. He had not only seen it
before, he had been here before: This was the place he had visited inside
Dumbledore's Pensieve, the place where he had watched the
Lestranges sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban.
The walls were made of dark stone, dimly lit by torches. Empty
benches rose on either side of him, but ahead, in the highest benches
of all, were many shadowy figures. They had been talking in low
voices, but as the heavy door swung closed behind Harry an ominous
silence fell.
A cold male voice rang across the courtroom.
"You're late."
"Sorry," said Harry nervously. "I-I didn't know the time had
changed."
"That is not the Wizengamot's fault," said the voice. "An owl was
sent to you this morning. Take your seat."
Harry dropped his gaze to the chair in the center of the room, the
arms of which were covered in chains. He had seen those chains spring


to life and bind whoever sat between them. His footsteps echoed
loudly as he walked across the stone floor. When he sat gingerly on the
edge of the chair the chains clinked rather threateningly but did not
bind him. Feeling rather sick he looked up at the people seated at the
bench above.
There were about fifty of them, all, as far as he could see, wearing
plum-colored robes with an elaborately worked silver W on the lefthand
side of the chest and all staring down their noses at him, some
with very austere expressions, others looks of frank curiosity.
In the very middle of the front row sat Cornelius Fudge, the Minister
of Magic. Fudge was a portly man who often sported a lime-green
bowler hat, though today he had dispensed with it; he had dispensed
too with the indulgent smile he had once worn when he spoke to
Harry. A broad, square-jawed witch with very short gray hair sat on
Fudge's left; she wore a monocle and looked forbidding. On Fudge's
right was another witch, but she was sitting so far back on the bench
that her face was in shadow.
"Very well," said Fudge. "The accused being present - finally -
let us begin. Are you ready?" he called down the row.
"Yes, sir," said an eager voice Harry knew. Ron's brother Percy was
sitting at the very end of the front bench. Harry looked at Percy, expecting
some sign of recognition from him, but none came. Percy's
eyes, behind his horn-rimmed glasses, were fixed on his parchment, a
quill poised in his hand.
"Disciplinary  of the twelfth of August," said Fudge in a
ringing voice, and Percy began taking notes at once, "into offenses
committed under the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage
Sorcery and the International Statute of Secrecy by Harry
James Potter, resident at number four, Privet Drive, Little Whinging,
Surrey.
"Interrogators: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister of Magic;
Amelia Susan Bones, Head of  of Magical Law EnTHE


forcement;  Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary to the
Minister. Court Scribe, Percy Ignatius Weasley -"
"- Witness for the defense, Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore,"
said a quiet voice from behind Harry, who turned his head so
fast he cricked his neck.
Dumbledore was striding serenely across the room wearing long
midnight-blue robes and a perfectly calm expression. His long silver
beard and hair gleamed in the torchlight as he drew level with Harry
and looked up at Fudge through the half-moon spectacles that rested
halfway down his very crooked nose.
The members of the Wizengamot were muttering. All eyes were
now on Dumbledore. Some looked annoyed, others slightly frightened;
two elderly witches in the back row, however, raised their hands
and waved in welcome.
A powerful emotion had risen in Harry's chest at the sight of Dumbledore,
a fortified, hopeful feeling rather like that which phoenix
song gave him. He wanted to catch Dumbledore's eye, but Dumbledore
was not looking his way; he was continuing to look up at the
obviously flustered Fudge.
"Ah," said Fudge, who looked thoroughly disconcerted. "Dumbledore.
Yes. You - er - got our - er - message that the time and -
er - place of  had been changed, then?"
"I must have missed it," said Dumbledore cheerfully. "However,
due to a lucky mistake I arrived at the Ministry three hours early, so
no harm done."
"Yes - well - I suppose we'll need another chair - I -
Weasley, could you - ?"
"Not to worry, not to worry," said Dumbledore pleasantly; he took
out his wand, gave it a little flick, and a squashy chintz armchair appeared
out of nowhere next to Harry. Dumbledore sat down, put the
tips of his long fingers together, and looked at Fudge over them with
an expression of polite interest. The Wizengamot was still muttering


and fidgeting restlessly; only when Fudge spoke again did they settle
down.
"Yes," said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. "Well, then. So. The
charges. Yes."
He extricated a piece of parchment from the pile before him, took
a deep breath, and read, "The charges against the accused are as follows:
That he did knowingly, deliberately, and in full awareness of the
illegality of his actions, having received a previous written warning
from  on a similar charge, produce a Patronus
Charm in a Muggle-inhabited area, in the presence of a Muggle, on
August the second at twenty minutes past nine, which constitutes
an offense under paragraph C of the Decree for the Reasonable
Restriction of Underage Sorcery, 1875, and also under section thirteen
of the International Confederation of Wizards' Statute of Secrecy.
"You are Harry James Potter, of number four, Privet Drive, Little
Whinging, Surrey?" Fudge said, glaring at Harry over the top of his
parchment.
"Yes," Harry said.
"You received an official warning from the Ministry for using illegal
magic three years ago, did you not?"
"Yes, but -"
"And yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the second of
August?" said Fudge.
"Yes," said Harry, "but -"
"Knowing that you are not permitted to use magic outside school
while you are under the age of seventeen?"
"Yes, but -"
"Knowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?"
"Yes, but -"
"Fully aware that you were in close proximity to a Muggle at the
time?
"Yes," said Harry angrily, "but I only used it because we were -"


The witch with the monocle on Fudge's left cut across him in a
booming voice.
"You produced a fully fledged Patronus?"
"Yes," said Harry, "because -"
"A corporeal Patronus?"
"A - what?" said Harry.
"Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to say, it was
more than vapor or smoke?"
"Yes," said Harry, feeling both impatient and slightly desperate,
"it's a stag, it's always a stag."
"Always?" boomed Madam Bones. "You have produced a Patronus
before now?"
"Yes," said Harry, "I've been doing it for over a year -"
"And you are fifteen years old?"
"Yes, and -"
"You learned this at school?"
"Yes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, because of the -"
"Impressive," said Madam Bones, staring down at him, "a true
Patronus at that age . . . very impressive indeed."
Some of the wizards and witches around her were muttering again;
a few nodded, but others were frowning and shaking their heads.
"It's not a question of how impressive the magic was," said Fudge
in a testy voice. "In fact, the more impressive the worse it is, I would
have thought, given that the boy did it in plain view of a Muggle!"
Those who had been frowning now murmured in agreement, but
it was the sight of Percy's sanctimonious little nod that goaded Harry
into speech.
"I did it because of the dementors!" he said loudly, before anyone
could interrupt him again.
He had expected more muttering, but the silence that fell seemed
to be somehow denser than before.
"Dementors?" said Madam Bones after a moment, raising her thick


eyebrows so that her monocle looked in danger of falling out. "What
do you mean, boy?"
"I mean there were two dementors down that alleyway and they
went for me and my cousin!"
"Ah," said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he looked around
at the Wizengamot, as though inviting them to share the joke. "Yes.
Yes, I thought we'd be  something like this."
"Dementors in Little Whinging?" Madam Bones said in tones of
great surprise. "I don't understand -"
"Don't you, Amelia?" said Fudge, still smirking. "Let me explain.
He's been thinking it through and decided dementors would make a
very nice little cover story, very nice indeed. Muggles can't see dementors,
can they, boy? Highly convenient, highly convenient . . . so it's
just your word and no witnesses. . . ."
"I'm not lying!" said Harry loudly, over another outbreak of muttering
from the court. "There were two of them, coming from opposite
ends of the alley, everything went dark and cold and my cousin
felt them and ran for it -"
"Enough, enough!" said Fudge with a very supercilious look on his
face. "I'm sorry to interrupt what I'm sure would have been a very
well-rehearsed story -"
Dumbledore cleared his throat. The Wizengamot fell silent again.
"We do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of dementors in that
alleyway," he said, "other than Dudley Dursley, I mean."
Fudge's plump face seemed to slacken, as though somebody had let
air out of it. He stared down at Dumbledore for a moment or two,
then, with the appearance of a man pulling himself back together,
said, "We haven't got time to listen to more taradiddles, I'm afraid,
Dumbledore. I want this dealt with quickly -"
"I may be wrong," said Dumbledore pleasantly, "but I am sure that
under the Wizengamot Charter of Rights, the accused has the right to


present witnesses for his or her case? Isn't that the policy of 
of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam Bones?" he continued,
addressing the witch in the monocle.
"True," said Madam Bones. "Perfectly true."
"Oh, very well, very well," snapped Fudge. "Where is this person?"
"I brought her with me," said Dumbledore. "She's just outside the
door. Should I - ?"
"No - Weasley, you go," Fudge barked at Percy, who got up at
once, hurried down the stone steps from the judge's balcony, and hastened
past Dumbledore and Harry without glancing at them.
A moment later, Percy returned, followed by Mrs. Figg. She looked
scared and more batty than ever. Harry wished she had thought to
change out of her carpet slippers.
Dumbledore stood up and gave Mrs. Figg his chair, conjuring a
second one for himself.
"Full name?" said Fudge loudly, when Mrs. Figg had perched herself
nervously on the very edge of her seat.
"Arabella Doreen Figg," said Mrs. Figg in her quavery voice.
"And who exactly are you?" said Fudge, in a bored and lofty voice.
"I'm a resident of Little Whinging, close to where Harry Potter
lives," said Mrs. Figg.
"We have no record of any witch or wizard living in Little Whinging
other than Harry Potter," said Madam Bones at once. "That situation
has always been closely monitored, given . . . given past events."
"I'm a Squib," said Mrs. Figg. "So you wouldn't have me registered,
would you?"
"A Squib, eh?" said Fudge, eyeing her suspiciously. "We'll be checking
that. You'll leave details of your parentage with my assistant,
Weasley. Incidentally, can Squibs see dementors?" he added, looking
left and right along the bench where he sat.
"Yes, we can!" said Mrs. Figg indignantly.


Fudge looked back down at her, his eyebrows raised. "Very well,"
he said coolly. "What is your story?"
"I had gone out to buy cat food from the corner shop at the end of
Wisteria Walk, shortly after nine on the evening of the second of
August," gabbled Mrs. Figg at once, as though she had learned what
she was saying by heart, "when I heard a disturbance down the alleyway
between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk. On approaching
the mouth of the alleyway I saw dementors running -"
"Running?" said Madam Bones sharply. "Dementors don't run,
they glide."
"That's what I meant to say," said Mrs. Figg quickly, patches of
pink appearing in her withered cheeks. "Gliding along the alley toward
what looked like two boys."
"What did they look like?" said Madam Bones, narrowing her eyes
so that the monocle's edges disappeared into her flesh.
"Well, one was very large and the other one rather skinny -"
"No, no," said Madam Bones impatiently, "the dementors . . . describe
them."
"Oh," said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creeping up her neck now.
"They were big. Big and wearing cloaks."
Harry felt a horrible sinking in the pit of his stomach. Whatever
Mrs. Figg said to the contrary, it sounded to him as though the most
she had ever seen was a picture of a dementor, and a picture could
never convey the truth of what these beings were like: the eerie way
they moved, hovering inches over the ground, or the rotting smell of
them, or that terrible, rattling noise they made as they sucked on the
surrounding air . . . A dumpy wizard with a large black mustache in
the second row leaned close to his neighbor, a frizzy-haired witch, and
whispered something in her ear. She smirked and nodded.
"Big and wearing cloaks," repeated Madam Bones coolly, while
Fudge snorted derisively. "I see. Anything else?"


"Yes," said Mrs. Figg. "I felt them. Everything went cold, and this
was a very warm summer's night, mark you. And I felt . . . as though
all happiness had gone from the world . . . and I remembered . . .
dreadful things. . . ."
Her voice shook and died.
Madam Bones' eyes widened slightly. Harry could see red marks
under her eyebrow where the monocle had dug into it.
"What did the dementors do?" she asked, and Harry felt a rush of
hope.
"They went for the boys," said Mrs. Figg, her voice stronger and
more confident now, the pink flush ebbing away from her face. "One
of them had fallen. The other was backing away, trying to repel the
dementor. That was Harry. He tried twice and produced silver vapor.
On the third attempt, he produced a Patronus, which charged down
the first dementor and then, with his encouragement, chased away the
second from his cousin. And that . . . that was what happened," Mrs.
Figg finished, somewhat lamely.
Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in silence; Fudge was not
looking at her at all, but fidgeting with his papers. Finally he raised his
eyes and said, rather aggressively "That's what you saw, is it?"
"That was what happened," Mrs. Figg repeated.
"Very well," said Fudge. "You may go."
Mrs. Figg cast a frightened look from Fudge to Dumbledore, then
got up and shuffled off toward the door again. Harry heard it thud
shut behind her.
"Not a very convincing witness," said Fudge loftily.
"Oh, I don't know," said Madam Bones in her booming voice. "She
certainly described the effects of a dementor attack very accurately.
And I can't imagine why she would say they were there if they
weren't -"
"But dementors wandering into a Muggle suburb and just happening


to come across a wizard?" snorted Fudge. "The odds on that must be
very, very long, even Bagman wouldn't have bet -"
"Oh, I don't think any of us believe the dementors were there by
coincidence," said Dumbledore lightly.
The witch sitting to the right of Fudge with her face in shadow
moved slightly, but everyone else was quite still and silent.
"And what is that supposed to mean?" asked Fudge icily.
"It means that I think they were ordered there," said Dumbledore.
"I think we might have a record of it if someone had ordered a pair
of dementors to go strolling through Little Whinging!" barked Fudge.
"Not if the dementors are taking orders from someone other than
 these days," said Dumbledore calmly. "I have
already given you my views on this matter, Cornelius."
"Yes, you have," said Fudge forcefully, "and I have no reason to believe
that your views are anything other than bilge, Dumbledore. The
dementors remain in place in Azkaban and are doing everything we
ask them to."
"Then," said Dumbledore, quietly but clearly, "we must ask ourselves
why somebody within the Ministry ordered a pair of dementors
into that alleyway on the second of August."
In the complete silence that greeted these words, the witch to the
right of Fudge leaned forward so that Harry saw her for the first time.
He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She was rather
squat with a broad, flabby face, as little neck as Uncle Vernon, and a
very wide, slack mouth. Her eyes were large, round, and slightly
bulging. Even the little black velvet bow perched on top of her short
curly hair put him in mind of a large fly she was about to catch on a
long sticky tongue.
"The Chair recognizes  Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary
to the Minister," said Fudge.
The witch spoke in a fluttery, girlish, high-pitched voice that took
Harry aback; he had been expecting a croak.


"I'm sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor Dumbledore,"
she said with a simper that left her big, round eyes as cold as ever. "So
silly of me. But it sounded for a teensy moment as though you were suggesting
that  had ordered an attack on this boy!"
She gave a silvery laugh that made the hairs on the back of Harry's
neck stand up. A few other members of the Wizengamot laughed with
her. It could not have been plainer that not one of them was really
amused.
"If it is true that the dementors are taking orders only from the Ministry
of Magic, and it is also true that two dementors attacked Harry
and his cousin a week ago, then it follows logically that somebody at
the Ministry might have ordered the attacks," said Dumbledore politely.
"Of course, these particular dementors may have been outside
Ministry control -"
"There are no dementors outside Ministry control!" snapped
Fudge, who had turned brick red.
Dumbledore inclined his head in a little bow.
"Then undoubtedly the Ministry will be making a full inquiry into
why two dementors were so very far from Azkaban and why they attacked
without authorization."
"It is not for you to decide what  does or does
not do, Dumbledore!" snapped Fudge, now a shade of magenta of
which Uncle Vernon would have been proud.
"Of course it isn't," said Dumbledore mildly. "I was merely expressing
my confidence that this matter will not go uninvestigated."
He glanced at Madam Bones, who readjusted her monocle and
stared back at him, frowning slightly.
"I would remind everybody that the behavior of these dementors,
if indeed they are not figments of this boy's imagination, is not the
subject of this !" said Fudge. "We are here to examine Harry
Potter's offenses under the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of
Underage Sorcery!"


"Of course we are," said Dumbledore, "but the presence of dementors
in that alleyway is highly relevant. Clause seven of the Decree
states that magic may be used before Muggles in exceptional circumstances,
and as those exceptional circumstances include situations that
threaten the life of the wizard or witch himself, or witches, wizards, or
Muggles present at the time of the -"
"We are familiar with clause seven, thank you very much!" snarled
Fudge.
"Of course you are," said Dumbledore courteously. "Then we are
in agreement that Harry's use of the Patronus Charm in these circumstances
falls precisely into the category of exceptional circumstances it
describes?"
"If there were dementors, which I doubt -"
"You have heard from an eyewitness," Dumbledore interrupted. "If
you still doubt her truthfulness, call her back, question her again. I am
sure she would not object."
"I - that - not -" blustered Fudge, fiddling with the papers before
him. "It's - I want this over with today, Dumbledore!"
"But naturally, you would not care how many times you heard
from a witness, if the alternative was a serious miscarriage of justice,"
said Dumbledore.
"Serious miscarriage, my hat!" said Fudge at the top of his voice.
"Have you ever bothered to tot up the number of cock-and-bull stories
this boy has come out with, Dumbledore, while trying to cover up
his flagrant misuse of magic out of school? I suppose you've forgotten
the Hover Charm he used three years ago -"
"That wasn't me, it was a house-elf!" said Harry.
"YOU SEE?" roared Fudge, gesturing flamboyantly in Harry's direction.
"A house-elf! In a Muggle house! I ask you -"
"The house-elf in question is currently in the employ of Hogwarts
School," said Dumbledore. "I can summon him here in an instant to
give evidence if you wish."


"I - not - I haven't got time to listen to house-elves! Anyway,
that's not the only - he blew up his aunt, for God's sake!" Fudge
shouted, banging his fist on the judge's bench and upsetting a bottle
of ink.
"And you very kindly did not press charges on that occasion, accepting,
I presume, that even the best wizards cannot always control
their emotions," said Dumbledore calmly, as Fudge attempted to
scrub the ink off his notes.
"And I haven't even started on what he gets up to at school -"
"- but as the Ministry has no authority to punish Hogwarts
students for misdemeanors at school, Harry's behavior there is not relevant
to this inquiry," said Dumbledore, politely as ever, but now
with a suggestion of coolness behind his words.
"Oho!" said Fudge. "Not our business what he does at school, eh?
You think so?"
"The Ministry does not have the power to expel Hogwarts students,
Cornelius, as I reminded you on the night of the second of
August," said Dumbledore. "Nor does it have the right to confiscate
wands until charges have been successfully proven, again, as I reminded
you on the night of the second of August. In your admirable
haste to ensure that the law is upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am
sure, to have overlooked a few laws yourself."
"Laws can be changed," said Fudge savagely.
"Of course they can," said Dumbledore, inclining his head. "And
you certainly seem to be making many changes, Cornelius. Why, in
the few short weeks since I was asked to leave the Wizengamot, it has
already become the practice to hold a full criminal trial to deal with a
simple matter of underage magic!"
A few of the wizards above them shifted uncomfortably in their
seats. Fudge turned a slightly deeper shade of puce. The toadlike
witch on his right, however, merely gazed at Dumbledore, her face
quite expressionless.


"As far as I am aware, however," Dumbledore continued, "there is
no law yet in place that says this court's job is to punish Harry for
every bit of magic he has ever performed. He has been charged with a
specific offense and he has presented his defense. All he and I can do
now is to await your verdict."
Dumbledore put his fingertips together again and said no more.
Fudge glared at him, evidently incensed. Harry glanced sideways at
Dumbledore, seeking reassurance; he was not at all sure that Dumbledore
was right in telling the Wizengamot, in effect, that it was about
time they made a decision. Again, however, Dumbledore seemed
oblivious to Harry's attempt to catch his eye. He continued to look up
at the benches where the entire Wizengamot had fallen into urgent,
whispered conversations.
Harry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to have swollen
to an unnatural size, was thumping loudly under his ribs. He had expected
 to last longer than this. He was not at all sure that
he had made a good impression. He had not really said very much. He
ought to have explained more fully about the dementors, about how
he had fallen over, about how both he and Dudley had nearly been
kissed. . . .
Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to speak, but
his swollen heart was now constricting his air passages and both times
he merely took a deep breath and looked back at his shoes.
Then the whispering stopped. Harry wanted to look up at the
judges, but found that it was really much, much easier to keep examining
his laces.
"Those in favor of clearing the accused of all charges?" said Madam
Bones's booming voice.
Harry's head jerked upward. There were hands in the air, many of
them . . . more than half ! Breathing very fast, he tried to count, but
before he could finish Madam Bones had said, "And those in favor of
conviction?"


Fudge raised his hand; so did half a dozen others, including the
witch on his right and the heavily mustached wizard and the frizzyhaired
witch in the second row.
Fudge glanced around at them all, looking as though there was
something large stuck in his throat, then lowered his own hand. He
took two deep breaths and then said, in a voice distorted by suppressed
rage, "Very well, very well . . . cleared of all charges."
"Excellent," said Dumbledore briskly, springing to his feet, pulling
out his wand, and causing the two chintz armchairs to vanish. "Well, I
must be getting along. Good day to you all."
And without looking once at Harry, he swept from the dungeon.




umbledore's abrupt departure took Harry completely by surprise.
He remained sitting where he was in the chained chair,
struggling with his feelings of shock and relief. The Wizengamot were
all getting to their feet, talking, and gathering up their papers and
packing them away. Harry stood up. Nobody seemed to be paying
him the slightest bit of attention except the toadlike witch on Fudge's
right, who was now gazing down at him instead of at Dumbledore. Ignoring
her, he tried to catch Fudge's eye, or Madam Bones's, wanting
to ask whether he was free to go, but Fudge seemed quite determined
not to notice Harry, and Madam Bones was busy with her briefcase,
so he took a few tentative steps toward the exit and when nobody
called him back, broke into a very fast walk.
He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open the door, and almost
collided with Mr. Weasley, who was standing right outside,
looking pale and apprehensive.
"Dumbledore didn't say -"
"Cleared," Harry said, pulling the door closed behind him, "of all
charges!"



Beaming, Mr. Weasley seized Harry by the shoulders.
"Harry, that's wonderful! Well, of course, they couldn't have found
you guilty, not on the evidence, but even so, I can't pretend I wasn't -"
But Mr. Weasley broke off, because the courtroom door had just
opened again. The Wizengamot were filing out.
"Merlin's beard," said Mr. Weasley wonderingly, pulling Harry
aside to let them all pass, "you were tried by the full court?"
"I think so," said Harry quietly.
One or two of the passing wizards nodded to Harry as they passed
and a few, including Madam Bones, said, "Morning, Arthur," to Mr.
Weasley, but most averted their eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the toadlike
witch were almost the last to leave the dungeon. Fudge acted as
though Mr. Weasley and Harry were part of the wall, but again, the
witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry as she passed. Last of all to
pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his father and
Harry; he marched past clutching a large roll of parchment and a
handful of spare quills, his back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines
around Mr. Weasley's mouth tightened slightly, but other than this he
gave no sign that he had noticed his third son.
"I'm going to take you straight back so you can tell the others the
good news," he said, beckoning Harry forward as Percy's heels disappeared
up the stairs to the ninth level. I'll drop you off on the way to
that toilet in Bethnal Green. Come on. . . ."
"So what will you have to do about the toilet?" Harry asked, grinning.
Everything suddenly seemed five times funnier than usual. It
was starting to sink in: He was cleared, he was going back to Hogwarts.
"Oh, it's a simple enough anti-jinx," said Mr. Weasley as they
mounted the stairs, "but it's not so much having to repair the damage,
it's more the attitude behind the vandalism, Harry. Muggle-baiting
might strike some wizards as funny, but it's an expression of something
much deeper and nastier, and I for one -"
Mr. Weasley broke off in mid-sentence. They had just reached the


ninth-level corridor, and Cornelius Fudge was standing a few feet
away from them, talking quietly to a tall man with sleek blond hair
and a pointed, pale face.
The second man turned at the sound of their footsteps. He too
broke off in mid-conversation, his cold gray eyes narrowed and fixed
upon Harry's face.
"Well, well, well . . . Patronus Potter," said Lucius Malfoy coolly.
Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into something
heavy. He had last seen those cool gray eyes through slits in a Death
Eater's hood, and last heard that man's voice jeering in a dark graveyard
while Lord Voldemort tortured him. He could not believe that
Lucius Malfoy dared look him in the face; he could not believe that he
was here, in , or that Cornelius Fudge was talking
to him, when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Malfoy
was a Death Eater.
"The Minister was just telling me about your lucky escape, Potter,"
drawled Mr. Malfoy. "Quite astonishing, the way you continue to
wriggle out of very tight holes. . . . Snakelike, in fact . . ."
Mr. Weasley gripped Harry's shoulder in warning.
"Yeah," said Harry, "yeah, I'm good at escaping. . . ."
Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr. Weasley's face.
"And Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, Arthur?"
"I work here," said Mr. Weasley shortly.
"Not here, surely?" said Mr. Malfoy, raising his eyebrows and glancing
toward the door over Mr. Weasley's shoulder. "I thought you were
up on the second floor. . . . Don't you do something that involves
sneaking Muggle artifacts home and bewitching them?"
"No," said Mr. Weasley curtly, his fingers now biting into Harry's
shoulder.
"What are you doing here anyway?" Harry asked Lucius Malfoy.
"I don't think private matters between myself and the Minister are
any concern of yours, Potter," said Malfoy, smoothing the front of his



robes; Harry distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what sounded like
a full pocket of gold. "Really, just because you are Dumbledore's favorite
boy, you must not expect the same indulgence from the rest of
us. . . . Shall we go up to your office, then, Minister?"
"Certainly," said Fudge, turning his back on Harry and Mr.
Weasley. "This way, Lucius."
They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr. Weasley did not
let go of Harry's shoulder until they had disappeared into the lift.
"Why wasn't he waiting outside Fudge's office if they've got business
to do together?" Harry burst out furiously. "What was he doing
down here?"
"Trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me," said Mr.
Weasley, looking extremely agitated as he glanced over his shoulder as
though making sure they could not be overheard. "Trying to find out
whether you'd been expelled or not. I'll leave a note for Dumbledore
when I drop you off, he ought to know Malfoy's been talking to Fudge
again."
"What private business have they got together anyway?"
"Gold, I expect," said Mr. Weasley angrily. "Malfoy's been giving
generously to all sorts of things for years. . . . Gets him in with the
right people . . . then he can ask favors . . . delay laws he doesn't want
passed . . . Oh, he's very well connected, Lucius Malfoy. . . ."
The lift arrived; it was empty except for a flock of memos that
flapped around Mr. Weasley's head as he pressed the button for the
Atrium and the doors clanged shut; he waved them away irritably.
"Mr. Weasley," said Harry slowly, "if Fudge is meeting Death
Eaters like Malfoy, if he's seeing them alone, how do we know they
haven't put the Imperius Curse on him?"
"Don't think it hadn't occurred to us, Harry," muttered Mr.
Weasley. "But Dumbledore thinks Fudge is acting of his own accord
at the moment - which, as Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort.
. . . Best not talk about it anymore just now, Harry. . . ."


The doors slid open and they stepped out into the now almostdeserted
Atrium. Eric the security man was hidden behind his Daily
Prophet again. They had walked straight past the golden fountain before
Harry remembered.
"Wait. . . ." he told Mr. Weasley, and pulling his money bag from
his pocket, he turned back to the fountain.
He looked up into the handsome wizard's face, but up close, Harry
thought he looked rather weak and foolish. The witch was wearing a
vapid smile like a beauty contestant, and from what Harry knew of
goblins and centaurs, they were most unlikely to be caught staring this
soppily at humans of any description. Only the house-elf 's attitude of
creeping servility looked convincing. With a grin at the thought of
what Hermione would say if she could see the statue of the elf, Harry
turned his money bag upside down and emptied not just ten
Galleons, but the whole contents into the pool at the statues' feet.
"I knew it!" yelled Ron, punching the air. "You always get away with
stuff !"
"They were bound to clear you," said Hermione, who had looked
positively faint with anxiety when Harry had entered the kitchen and
was now holding a shaking hand over her eyes. "There was no case
against you, none at all. . . ."
"Everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering they all knew
I'd get off," said Harry, smiling.
 was wiping her face on her apron, and Fred, George,
and Ginny were doing a kind of war dance to a chant that went "He
got off, he got off, he got off -"
"That's enough, settle down!" shouted Mr. Weasley, though he too
was smiling. "Listen, Sirius, Lucius Malfoy was at the Ministry -"
"What?" said Sirius sharply.
"He got off, he got off, he got off -"
"Be quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to Fudge on level



nine, then they went up to Fudge's office together. Dumbledore ought
to know."
"Absolutely," said Sirius. "We'll tell him, don't worry."
"Well, I'd better get going, there's a vomiting toilet in Bethnal
Green waiting for me. Molly, I'll be late, I'm covering for Tonks, but
Kingsley might be dropping in for dinner -"
"He got off, he got off, he got off -"
"That's enough - Fred - George - Ginny!" said ,
as Mr. Weasley left the kitchen. "Harry dear, come and sit down, have
some lunch, you hardly ate breakfast. . . ."
Ron and Hermione sat themselves down opposite him looking
happier than they had done since he had first arrived at number
twelve, , and Harry's feeling of giddy relief, which
had been somewhat dented by his encounter with Lucius Malfoy,
swelled again. The gloomy house seemed warmer and more welcoming
all of a sudden; even Kreacher looked less ugly as he poked his
snoutlike nose into the kitchen to investigate the source of all the
noise.
" 'Course, once Dumbledore turned up on your side, there was no
way they were going to convict you," said Ron happily, now dishing
great mounds of mashed potatoes onto everyone's plates.
"Yeah, he swung it for me," said Harry. He felt that it would sound
highly ungrateful, not to mention childish, to say, "I wish he'd talked
to me, though. Or even looked at me."
And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead burned so badly
that he clapped his hand to it.
"What's up?" said Hermione, looking alarmed.
"Scar," Harry mumbled. "But it's nothing. . . . It happens all the
time now. . . ."
None of the others had noticed a thing; all of them were now helping
themselves to food while gloating over Harry's narrow escape;
Fred, George, and Ginny were still singing. Hermione looked rather


anxious, but before she could say anything, Ron said happily, "I bet
Dumbledore turns up this evening to celebrate with us, you know."
"I don't think he'll be able to, Ron," said , setting a
huge plate of roast chicken down in front of Harry. "He's really very
busy at the moment."
"HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF -"
"SHUT UP!" roared .
Over the next few days Harry could not help noticing that there was
one person within  , who did not
seem wholly overjoyed that he would be returning to Hogwarts. Sirius
had put up a very good show of happiness on first  the
news, wringing Harry's hand and beaming just like the rest of them;
soon, however, he was moodier and surlier than before, talking less to
everybody, even Harry, and spending increasing amounts of time shut
up in his mother's room with Buckbeak.
"Don't you go feeling guilty!" said Hermione sternly, after Harry
had confided some of his feelings to her and Ron while they
scrubbed out a moldy cupboard on the third floor a few days later.
"You belong at Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think he's
being selfish."
"That's a bit harsh, Hermione," said Ron, frowning as he attempted
to prize off a bit of mold that had attached itself firmly to his
finger, "you wouldn't want to be stuck inside this house without
company."
"He'll have company!" said Hermione. "It's headquarters to the
Order of the Phoenix, isn't it? He just got his hopes up that Harry
would be coming to live here with him."
"I don't think that's true," said Harry, wringing out his cloth. "He
wouldn't give me a straight answer when I asked him if I could."
"He just didn't want to get his own hopes up even more," said
Hermione wisely. "And he probably felt a bit guilty himself, because I



think a part of him was really hoping you'd be expelled. Then you'd
both be outcasts together."
"Come off it!" said Harry and Ron together, but Hermione merely
shrugged.
"Suit yourselves. But I sometimes think Ron's mum's right, and Sirius
gets confused about whether you're you or your father, Harry."
"So you think he's touched in the head?" said Harry heatedly.
"No, I just think he's been very lonely for a long time," said
Hermione simply.
At this point  entered the bedroom behind them.
"Still not finished?" she said, poking her head into the cupboard.
"I thought you might be here to tell us to have a break!" said Ron
bitterly. "D'you know how much mold we've got rid of since we arrived
here?"
"You were so keen to help the Order," said , "you can
do your bit by making headquarters fit to live in."
"I feel like a house-elf," grumbled Ron.
"Well, now that you understand what dreadful lives they lead, perhaps
you'll be a bit more active in S.P.E.W.!" said Hermione hopefully,
as  left them to it again. "You know, maybe it wouldn't
be a bad idea to show people exactly how horrible it is to clean all the
time - we could do a sponsored scrub of Gryffindor common room,
all proceeds to S.P.E.W., it would raise awareness as well as funds -"
"I'll sponsor you to shut up about spew," Ron muttered irritably,
but only so Harry could hear him.
Harry found himself daydreaming about Hogwarts more and more
as the end of the holidays approached; he could not wait to see Hagrid
again, to play Quidditch, even to stroll across the vegetable patches to
the Herbology greenhouses. It would be a treat just to leave this dusty,
musty house, where half of the cupboards were still bolted shut and
Kreacher wheezed insults out of the shadows as you passed, though
Harry was careful not to say any of this within earshot of Sirius.


The fact was that living at the headquarters of the anti-Voldemort
movement was not nearly as interesting or exciting as Harry would
have expected before he'd experienced it. Though members of the Order
of the Phoenix came and went regularly, sometimes staying for
meals, sometimes only for a few minutes' whispered conversation,
 made sure that Harry and the others were kept well out
of earshot (whether Extendable or normal) and nobody, not even Sirius,
seemed to feel that Harry needed to know anything more than he
had heard on the night of his arrival.
On the very last day of the holidays Harry was sweeping up Hedwig's
owl droppings from the top of the wardrobe when Ron entered
their bedroom carrying a couple of envelopes.
"Booklists have arrived," he said, throwing one of the envelopes up
to Harry, who was standing on a chair. "About time, I thought they'd
forgotten, they usually come much earlier than this. . . ."
Harry swept the last of the droppings into a rubbish bag and threw
the bag over Ron's head into the wastepaper basket in the corner,
which swallowed it and belched loudly. He then opened his letter: It
contained two pieces of parchment, one the usual reminder that term
started on the first of September, the other telling him which books he
would need for the coming year.
"Only two new ones," he said, reading the list. "The Standard Book
of Spells, Grade 5, by Miranda Goshawk and Defensive Magical Theory,
by Wilbert Slinkhard."
Crack.
Fred and George Apparated right beside Harry. He was so used to
them doing this by now that he didn't even fall off his chair.
"We were just wondering who assigned the Slinkhard book," said
Fred conversationally.
"Because it means Dumbledore's found a new Defense Against the
Dark Arts teacher," said George.



"And about time too," said Fred.
"What d'you mean?" Harry asked, jumping down beside them.
"Well, we overheard Mum and Dad talking on the Extendable Ears
a few weeks back," Fred told Harry, "and from what they were saying,
Dumbledore was having real trouble finding anyone to do the job this
year."
"Not surprising, is it, when you look at what's happened to the last
four?" said George.
"One sacked, one dead, one's  removed, and one locked in
a trunk for nine months," said Harry, counting them off on his fingers.
"Yeah, I see what you mean."
"What's up with you, Ron?" asked Fred.
Ron did not answer. Harry looked around. Ron was standing very
still with his mouth slightly open, gaping at his letter from Hogwarts.
"What's the matter?" said Fred impatiently, moving around Ron to
look over his shoulder at the parchment.
Fred's mouth fell open too.
"Prefect?" he said, staring incredulously at the letter. "Prefect?"
George leapt forward, seized the envelope in Ron's other hand, and
turned it upside down. Harry saw something scarlet and gold fall into
George's palm.
"No way," said George in a hushed voice.
"There's been a mistake," said Fred, snatching the letter out of
Ron's grasp and holding it up to the light as though checking for a watermark.
"No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect. . . ."
The twins' heads turned in unison and both of them stared at
Harry.
"We thought you were a cert!" said Fred in a tone that suggested
Harry had tricked them in some way.
"We thought Dumbledore was bound to pick you!" said George
indignantly.


"Winning the Triwizard and everything!" said Fred.
"I suppose all the mad stuff must've counted against him," said
George to Fred.
"Yeah," said Fred slowly. "Yeah, you've caused too much trouble,
mate. Well, at least one of you's got their priorities right."
He strode over to Harry and clapped him on the back while giving
Ron a scathing look.
"Prefect . . . ickle Ronnie the prefect . . ."
"Oh, Mum's going to be revolting," groaned George, thrusting the
prefect badge back at Ron as though it might contaminate him.
Ron, who still had not said a word, took the badge, stared at it for
a moment, and then held it out to Harry as though asking mutely for
confirmation that it was genuine. Harry took it. A large P was superimposed
on the Gryffindor lion. He had seen a badge just like this on
Percy's chest on his very first day at Hogwarts.
The door banged open. Hermione came tearing into the room, her
cheeks flushed and her hair flying. There was an envelope in her hand.
"Did you - did you get - ?"
She spotted the badge in Harry's hand and let out a shriek.
"I knew it!" she said excitedly, brandishing her letter. "Me too,
Harry, me too!"
"No," said Harry quickly, pushing the badge back into Ron's hand.
"It's Ron, not me."
"It - what?"
"Ron's prefect, not me," Harry said.
"Ron?" said Hermione, her jaw dropping. "But . . . are you sure? I
mean -"
She turned red as Ron looked around at her with a defiant expression
on his face.
"It's my name on the letter," he said.
"I . . ." said Hermione, looking thoroughly bewildered. "I . . . well
. . . wow! Well done, Ron! That's really -"



"Unexpected," said George, nodding.
"No," said Hermione, blushing harder than ever, "no, it's not . . .
Ron's done loads of . . . he's really . . ."
The door behind her opened a little wider and 
backed into the room carrying a pile of freshly laundered robes.
"Ginny said the booklists had come at last," she said, glancing
around at all the envelopes as she made her way over to the bed and
started sorting the robes into two piles. "If you give them to me I'll
take them over to Diagon Alley this afternoon and get your books
while you're packing. Ron, I'll have to get you more pajamas, these are
at least six inches too short, I can't believe how fast you're growing . . .
what color would you like?"
"Get him red and gold to match his badge," said George, smirking.
"Match his what?" said  absently, rolling up a pair of
maroon socks and placing them on Ron's pile.
"His badge," said Fred, with the air of getting the worst over
quickly. "His lovely shiny new prefect's badge."
Fred's words took a moment to penetrate 's preoccupation
about pajamas.
"His . . . but . . . Ron, you're not. . . ?"
Ron held up his badge.
 let out a shriek just like Hermione's.
"I don't believe it! I don't believe it! Oh, Ron, how wonderful! A
prefect! That's everyone in the family!"
"What are Fred and I, next-door neighbors?" said George indignantly,
as his mother pushed him aside and flung her arms around her
youngest son.
"Wait until your father hears! Ron, I'm so proud of you, what wonderful
news, you could end up Head Boy just like Bill and Percy, it's
the first step! Oh, what a thing to happen in the middle of all this
worry, I'm just thrilled, oh Ronnie -"
Fred and George were both making loud retching noises behind


her back but  did not notice; arms tight around Ron's
neck, she was kissing him all over his face, which had turned a brighter
scarlet than his badge.
"Mum . . . don't . . . Mum, get a grip. . . ." he muttered, trying to
push her away.
She let go of him and said breathlessly, "Well, what will it be? We
gave Percy an owl, but you've already got one, of course."
"W-what do you mean?" said Ron, looking as though he did not
dare believe his ears.
"You've got to have a reward for this!" said  fondly.
"How about a nice new set of dress robes?"
"We've already bought him some," said Fred sourly, who looked as
though he sincerely regretted this generosity.
"Or a new cauldron, Charlie's old one's rusting through, or a new
rat, you always liked Scabbers -"
"Mum," said Ron hopefully, "can I have a new broom?"
's face fell slightly; broomsticks were expensive.
"Not a really good one!" Ron hastened to add. "Just - just a new
one for a change . . ."
 hesitated, then smiled.
"Of course you can. . . . Well, I'd better get going if I've got a broom
to buy too. I'll see you all later. . . . Little Ronnie, a prefect! And don't
forget to pack your trunks. . . . A prefect . . . Oh, I'm all of a dither!"
She gave Ron yet another kiss on the cheek, sniffed loudly, and bustled
from the room.
Fred and George exchanged looks.
"You don't mind if we don't kiss you, do you, Ron?" said Fred in a
falsely anxious voice.
"We could curtsy, if you like," said George.
"Oh, shut up," said Ron, scowling at them.
"Or what?" said Fred, an evil grin spreading across his face. "Going
to put us in detention?"



"I'd love to see him try," sniggered George.
"He could if you don't watch out!" said Hermione angrily, at which
Fred and George burst out laughing and Ron muttered, "Drop it,
Hermione."
"We're going to have to watch our step, George," said Fred, pretending
to tremble, "with these two on our case. . . ."
"Yeah, it looks like our law-breaking days are finally over," said
George, shaking his head.
And with another loud crack, the twins Disapparated.
"Those two!" said Hermione furiously, staring up at the ceiling,
through which they could now hear Fred and George roaring with
laughter in the room upstairs. "Don't pay any attention to them, Ron,
they're only jealous!"
"I don't think they are," said Ron doubtfully, also looking up at the
ceiling. "They've always said only prats become prefects. . . . Still," he
added on a happier note, "they've never had new brooms! I wish I
could go with Mum and choose. . . . She'll never be able to afford a
Nimbus, but there's the new Cleansweep out, that'd be great. . . .
Yeah, I think I'll go and tell her I like the Cleansweep, just so she
knows. . . ."
He dashed from the room, leaving Harry and Hermione alone.
For some reason, Harry found that he did not want to look at
Hermione. He turned to his bed, picked up the pile of clean robes
 had laid upon it, and crossed the room to his trunk.
"Harry?" said Hermione tentatively.
"Well done," said Harry, so heartily it did not sound like his voice
at all, and still not looking at her. "Brilliant. Prefect. Great."
"Thanks," said Hermione. "Erm - Harry - could I borrow
Hedwig so I can tell Mum and Dad? They'll be really pleased - I
mean, prefect is something they can understand -"
"Yeah, no problem," said Harry, still in the horrible hearty voice
that did not belong to him. "Take her!"


He leaned over his trunk, laid the robes on the bottom of it, and pretended
to be rummaging for something while Hermione crossed to the
wardrobe and called Hedwig down. A few moments passed; Harry
heard the door close but remained bent double, listening; the only
sounds he could hear were the blank picture on the wall sniggering again
and the wastepaper basket in the corner coughing up the owl droppings.
He straightened up and looked behind him. Hermione and Hedwig
had gone. Harry returned slowly to his bed and sank onto it, gazing
unseeingly at the foot of the wardrobe.
He had forgotten completely about prefects being chosen in the
fifth year. He had been too anxious about the possibility of being expelled
to spare a thought for the fact that badges must be winging
their way toward certain people. But if he had remembered . . . if he
had thought about it . . . what would he have expected?
Not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his head.
Harry screwed up his face and buried it in his hands. He could not
lie to himself; if he had known the prefect badge was on its way, he
would have expected it to come to him, not Ron. Did this make him
as arrogant as Draco Malfoy? Did he think himself superior to everyone
else? Did he really believe he was better than Ron?
No, said the small voice defiantly.
Was that true? Harry wondered, anxiously probing his own feelings.
I'm better at Quidditch, said the voice. But I'm not better at anything
else.
That was definitely true, Harry thought; he was no better than Ron
in lessons. But what about outside lessons? What about those adventures
he, Ron, and Hermione had had together since they had started
at Hogwarts, often risking much worse than expulsion?
Well, Ron and Hermione were with me most of the time, said the voice
in Harry's head.
Not all the time, though, Harry argued with himself. They didn't fight



Quirrell with me. They didn't take on Riddle and the basilisk. They didn't
get rid of all those dementors the night Sirius escaped. They weren't in that
graveyard with me, the night Voldemort returned. . . .
And the same feeling of ill usage that had overwhelmed him on
the night he had arrived rose again. I've definitely done more, Harry
thought indignantly. I've done more than either of them!
But maybe, said the small voice fairly, maybe Dumbledore doesn't
choose prefects because they've got themselves into a load of dangerous situations.
. . . Maybe he chooses them for other reasons. . . . Ron must have
something you don't. . . .
Harry opened his eyes and stared through his fingers at the wardrobe's
clawed feet, remembering what Fred had said.
"No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect. . . ."
Harry gave a small snort of laughter. A second later he felt sickened
with himself.
Ron had not asked Dumbledore to give him the prefect badge. This
was not Ron's fault. Was he, Harry, Ron's best friend in the world,
going to sulk because he didn't have a badge, laugh with the twins
behind Ron's back, ruin this for Ron when, for the first time, he had
beaten Harry at something?
At this point Harry heard Ron's footsteps on the stairs again. He
stood up, straightened his glasses, and hitched a grin onto his face as
Ron bounded back through the door.
"Just caught her!" he said happily. "She says she'll get the Cleansweep
if she can."
"Cool," Harry said, and he was relieved to hear that his voice had
stopped sounding hearty. "Listen - Ron - well done, mate."
The smile faded off Ron's face.
"I never thought it would be me!" he said, shaking his head, "I
thought it would be you!"
"Nah, I've caused too much trouble," Harry said, echoing Fred.


"Yeah," said Ron, "yeah, I suppose. . . . Well, we'd better get our
trunks packed, hadn't we?"
It was odd how widely their possessions seemed to have scattered
themselves since they had arrived. It took them most of the afternoon
to retrieve their books and belongings from all over the house and
stow them back inside their school trunks. Harry noticed that Ron
kept moving his prefect's badge around, first placing it on his bedside
table, then putting it into his jeans pocket, then taking it out and laying
it on his folded robes, as though to see the effect of the red on the
black. Only when Fred and George dropped in and offered to attach
it to his forehead with a Permanent Sticking Charm did he wrap it
tenderly in his maroon socks and lock it in his trunk.
 returned from Diagon Alley around six o'clock, laden
with books and carrying a long package wrapped in thick brown paper
that Ron took from her with a moan of longing.
"Never mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving for dinner, I
want you all downstairs," she said, but the moment she was out of
sight Ron ripped off the paper in a frenzy and examined every inch of
his new broom, an ecstatic expression on his face.
Down in the basement  had hung a scarlet banner
over the heavily laden dinner table, which read congratulations
ron and hermione - new prefects. She looked in a better mood
than Harry had seen her all holiday.
"I thought we'd have a little party, not a sit-down dinner," she told
Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny as they entered the
room. "Your father and Bill are on their way, Ron, I've sent them both
owls and they're thrilled," she added, beaming.
Fred rolled his eyes.
Sirius, Lupin, Tonks, and Kingsley Shacklebolt were already there
and Mad-Eye Moody stumped in shortly after Harry had got himself
a butterbeer.
"Oh, Alastor, I am glad you're here," said  brightly, as



Mad-Eye shrugged off his traveling cloak. "We've been wanting to ask
you for ages - could you have a look in the writing desk in the drawing
room and tell us what's inside it? We haven't wanted to open it just
in case it's something really nasty."
"No problem, Molly . . ."
Moody's electric-blue eye swiveled upward and stared fixedly
through the ceiling of the kitchen.
"Drawing room . . ." he growled, as the pupil contracted. "Desk in
the corner? Yeah, I see it. . . . Yeah, it's a boggart. . . . Want me to go
up and get rid of it, Molly?"
"No, no, I'll do it myself later," beamed . "You have
your drink. We're having a little bit of a celebration, actually. . . ." She
gestured at the scarlet banner. "Fourth prefect in the family!" she said
fondly, ruffling Ron's hair.
"Prefect, eh?" growled Moody, his normal eye on Ron and his magical
eye swiveling around to gaze into the side of his head. Harry had
the very uncomfortable feeling it was looking at him and moved away
toward Sirius and Lupin.
"Well, congratulations," said Moody, still glaring at Ron with his
normal eye, "authority figures always attract trouble, but I suppose
Dumbledore thinks you can withstand most major jinxes or he
wouldn't have appointed you. . . ."
Ron looked rather startled at this view of the matter but was saved
the trouble of responding by the arrival of his father and eldest
brother.  was in such a good mood she did not even
complain that they had brought Mundungus with them too; he was
wearing a long overcoat that seemed oddly lumpy in unlikely places
and declined the offer to remove it and put it with Moody's traveling
cloak.
"Well, I think a toast is in order," said Mr. Weasley, when everyone
had a drink. He raised his goblet. "To Ron and Hermione, the new
Gryffindor prefects!"


Ron and Hermione beamed as everyone drank to them and then
applauded.
"I was never a prefect myself," said Tonks brightly from behind
Harry as everybody moved toward the table to help themselves to
food. Her hair was tomato-red and waist length today; she looked like
Ginny's older sister. "My Head of House said I lacked certain necessary
qualities."
"Like what?" said Ginny, who was choosing a baked potato.
"Like the ability to behave myself," said Tonks.
Ginny laughed; Hermione looked as though she did not know
whether to smile or not and compromised by taking an extra large
gulp of butterbeer and choking on it.
"What about you, Sirius?" Ginny asked, thumping Hermione on
the back.
Sirius, who was right beside Harry, let out his usual barklike laugh.
"No one would have made me a prefect, I spent too much time in
 James. Lupin was the good boy, he got the badge."
"I think Dumbledore might have hoped that I would be able to exercise
some control over my best friends," said Lupin. "I need scarcely
say that I failed dismally."
Harry's mood suddenly lifted. His father had not been a prefect either.
All at once the party seemed much more enjoyable; he loaded up
his plate, feeling unusually fond of everyone in the room.
Ron was rhapsodizing about his new broom to anybody who would
listen.
". . . naught to seventy in ten seconds, not bad, is it? When you
think the Comet Two Ninety's only naught to sixty and that's with a
decent tailwind according to Which Broomstick?"
Hermione was talking very earnestly to Lupin about her view of elf
rights.
"I mean, it's the same kind of nonsense as werewolf segregation,



isn't it? It all stems from this horrible thing wizards have of thinking
they're superior to other creatures. . . ."
 and Bill were having their usual argument about Bill's
hair.
". . . getting really out of hand, and you're so good-looking, it
would look much better shorter, wouldn't it, Harry?"
"Oh - I dunno -" said Harry, slightly alarmed at being asked his
opinion; he slid away from them in the direction of Fred and George,
who were huddled in a corner with Mundungus.
Mundungus stopped talking when he saw Harry, but Fred winked
and beckoned Harry closer.
"It's okay," he told Mundungus, "we can trust Harry, he's our financial
backer."
"Look what Dung's gotten us," said George, holding out his hand
to Harry. It was full of what looked like shriveled black pods. A faint
rattling noise was coming from them, even though they were completely
stationary.
"Venomous Tentacula seeds," said George. "We need them for the
Skiving Snackboxes but they're a Class C Non-Tradeable Substance so
we've been having a bit of trouble getting hold of them."
"Ten Galleons the lot, then, Dung?" said Fred.
"Wiv all the trouble I went to to get 'em?" said Mundungus, his
saggy, bloodshot eyes stretching even wider. "I'm sorry, lads, but I'm
not taking a Knut under twenty."
"Dung likes his little joke," Fred said to Harry.
"Yeah, his best one so far has been six Sickles for a bag of knarl
quills," said George.
"Be careful," Harry warned them quietly.
"What?" said Fred. "Mum's busy cooing over Prefect Ron, we're
okay."
"But Moody could have his eye on you," Harry pointed out.


Mundungus looked nervously over his shoulder.
"Good point, that," he grunted. "All right, lads, ten it is, if you'll
take 'em quick."
"Cheers, Harry!" said Fred delightedly, when Mundungus had
emptied his pockets into the twins' outstretched hands and scuttled
off toward the food. "We'd better get these upstairs. . . ."
Harry watched them go, feeling slightly uneasy. It had just occurred
to him that Mr. and  would want to know how
Fred and George were financing their joke shop business when, as was
inevitable, they finally found out about it. Giving the twins his Triwizard
winnings had seemed a simple thing to do at the time, but
what if it led to another family row and a Percy-like estrangement?
Would  still feel that Harry was as good as her son if she
found out he had made it possible for Fred and George to start a career
she thought quite unsuitable?
Standing where the twins had left him with nothing but a guilty
weight in the pit of his stomach for company, Harry caught the sound
of his own name. Kingsley Shacklebolt's deep voice was audible even
over the surrounding chatter.
". . . why Dumbledore didn't make Potter a prefect?" said Kingsley.
"He'll have had his reasons," replied Lupin.
"But it would've shown confidence in him. It's what I'd've done,"
persisted Kingsley, " 'specially with the Daily Prophet having a go at
him every few days. . . ."
Harry did not look around; he did not want Lupin or Kingsley to
know he had heard. He followed Mundungus back toward the table,
though not remotely hungry. His pleasure in the party had evaporated
as quickly as it had come; he wished he were upstairs in bed.
Mad-Eye Moody was sniffing at a chicken leg with what remained
of his nose; evidently he could not detect any trace of poison, because
he then tore a strip off it with his teeth.



". . . the handle's made of Spanish oak with anti-jinx varnish and
in-built vibration control -" Ron was saying to Tonks.
 yawned widely.
"Well, I think I'll sort out that boggart before I turn in. . . . Arthur,
I don't want this lot up too late, all right? 'Night, Harry, dear."
She left the kitchen. Harry set down his plate and wondered
whether he could follow her without attracting attention.
"You all right, Potter?" grunted Moody.
"Yeah, fine," lied Harry.
Moody took a swig from his hip flask, his electric blue eye staring
sideways at Harry.
"Come here, I've got something that might interest you," he said.
From an inner pocket of his robes Moody pulled a very tattered old
Wizarding photograph.
"Original Order of the Phoenix," growled Moody. "Found it last
night when I was looking for my spare Invisibility Cloak, seeing as
Podmore hasn't had the manners to return my best one. . . . Thought
people might like to see it."
Harry took the photograph. A small crowd of people, some waving
at him, others lifting their glasses, looked back up at him.
"There's me," said Moody unnecessarily, pointing at himself. The
Moody in the picture was unmistakable, though his hair was slightly
less gray and his nose was intact. "And there's Dumbledore beside me,
Dedalus Diggle on the other side . . . That's Marlene McKinnon, she
was killed two weeks after this was taken, they got her whole family.
That's Frank and Alice Longbottom -"
Harry's stomach, already uncomfortable, clenched as he looked at
Alice Longbottom; he knew her round, friendly face very well, even
though he had never met her, because she was the image of her son,
Neville.
"Poor devils," growled Moody. "Better dead than what happened


to them . . . and that's Emmeline Vance, you've met her, and that
there's Lupin, obviously . . . Benjy Fenwick, he copped it too, we only
ever found bits of him . . . shift aside there," he added, poking the picture,
and the little photographic people edged sideways, so that those
who were partially obscured could move to the front.
"That's Edgar Bones . . . brother of Amelia Bones, they got him and
his family too, he was a great wizard . . . Sturgis Podmore, blimey, he
looks young . . . Caradoc Dearborn, vanished six months after this, we
never found his body . . . Hagrid, of course, looks exactly the same as
ever . . . Elphias Doge, you've met him, I'd forgotten he used to wear
that stupid hat . . . Gideon Prewett, it took five Death Eaters to kill
him and his brother Fabian, they fought like heroes . . . budge along,
budge along . . ."
The little people in the photograph jostled among themselves, and
those hidden right at the back appeared at the forefront of the picture.
"That's Dumbledore's brother, Aberforth, only time I ever met him,
strange bloke . . . That's Dorcas Meadowes, Voldemort killed her personally
. . . Sirius, when he still had short hair . . . and . . . there you
go, thought that would interest you!"
Harry's heart turned over. His mother and father were beaming up
at him, sitting on either side of a small, watery-eyed man Harry recognized
at once as Wormtail: He was the one who had betrayed their
whereabouts to Voldemort and so helped bring about their deaths.
"Eh?" said Moody.
Harry looked up into Moody's heavily scarred and pitted face. Evidently
Moody was under the impression he had just given Harry a bit
of a treat.
"Yeah," said Harry, attempting to grin again. "Er . . . listen, I've
just remembered, I haven't packed my . . ."
He was spared the trouble of inventing an object he had not
packed; Sirius had just said, "What's that you've got there, Mad-Eye?"
and Moody had turned toward him. Harry crossed the kitchen,



slipped through the door and up the stairs before anyone could call
him back.
He did not know why he had received such a shock; he had seen his
parents' pictures before, after all, and he had met Wormtail . . . but to
have them sprung on him like that, when he was least expecting it . . .
No one would like that, he thought angrily. . . .
And then, to see them surrounded by all those other happy faces
. . . Benjy Fenwick, who had been found in bits, and Gideon Prewett,
who had died like a hero, and the Longbottoms, who had been tortured
into madness . . . all waving happily out of the photograph
forevermore, not knowing that they were doomed. . . . Well, Moody
might find that interesting . . . he, Harry, found it disturbing. . . .
Harry tiptoed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed elf heads,
glad to be on his own again, but as he approached the first landing he
heard noises. Someone was sobbing in the drawing room.
"Hello?" Harry said.
There was no answer but the sobbing continued. He climbed the
remaining stairs two at a time, walked across the landing, and opened
the drawing-room door.
Someone was cowering against the dark wall, her wand in her
hand, her whole body shaking with sobs. Sprawled on the dusty old
carpet in a patch of moonlight, clearly dead, was Ron.
All the air seemed to vanish from Harry's lungs; he felt as though he
were falling through the floor; his brain turned icy cold - Ron dead,
no, it couldn't be -
But wait a moment, it couldn't be - Ron was downstairs -
"?" Harry croaked.
"R-r-riddikulus!''  sobbed, pointing her shaking wand
at Ron's body.
Crack.
Ron's body turned into Bill's, spread-eagled on his back, his eyes
wide open and empty.  sobbed harder than ever.


"R-riddikulus!" she sobbed again.
Crack.
Mr. Weasley's body replaced Bill's, his glasses askew, a trickle of
blood running down his face.
"No!"  moaned. "No . . . riddikulus! Riddikulus!
RIDDIKULUS!"
Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Percy. Crack. Dead Harry . . .
", just get out of here!" shouted Harry, staring down
at his own dead body on the floor. "Let someone else -"
"What's going on?"
Lupin had come running into the room, closely followed by Sirius,
with Moody stumping along behind them. Lupin looked from Mrs.
Weasley to the dead Harry on the floor and seemed to understand in
an instant. Pulling out his own wand he said, very firmly and clearly,
"Riddikulus!"
Harry's body vanished. A silvery orb hung in the air over the spot
where it had lain. Lupin waved his wand once more and the orb vanished
in a puff of smoke.
"Oh - oh - oh!" gulped , and she broke into a
storm of crying, her face in her hands.
"Molly," said Lupin bleakly, walking over to her, "Molly, don't . . ."
Next second she was sobbing her heart out on Lupin's shoulder.
"Molly, it was just a boggart," he said soothingly, patting her on the
head. "Just a stupid boggart . . ."
"I see them d-d-dead all the time!"  moaned into his
shoulder. "All the t-t-time! I d-d-dream about it . . ."
Sirius was staring at the patch of carpet where the boggart, pretending
to be Harry's body, had lain. Moody was looking at Harry,
who avoided his gaze. He had a funny feeling Moody's magical eye
had followed him all the way out of the kitchen.
"D-d-don't tell Arthur,"  was gulping now, mopping



her eyes frantically with her cuffs. "I d-d-don't want him to know. . . .
Being silly . . ."
Lupin handed her a handkerchief and she blew her nose.
"Harry, I'm so sorry, what must you think of me?" she said shakily.
"Not even able to get rid of a boggart . . ."
"Don't be stupid," said Harry, trying to smile.
"I'm just s-s-so worried," she said, tears spilling out of her eyes
again. "Half the f-f-family's in the Order, it'll b-b-be a miracle if we all
come through this. . . . and P-P-Percy's not talking to us. . . . What if
something d-d-dreadful happens and we had never m-m-made up?
And what's going to happen if Arthur and I get killed, who's g-g-going
to look after Ron and Ginny?"
"Molly, that's enough," said Lupin firmly. "This isn't like last time.
The Order is better prepared, we've got a head start, we know what
Voldemort's up to -"
 gave a little squeak of fright at the sound of the name.
"Oh, Molly, come on, it's about time you got used to  it -
look, I can't promise no one's going to get hurt, nobody can promise
that, but we're much better off than we were last time, you weren't in
the Order then, you don't understand, last time we were outnumbered
twenty to one by the Death Eaters and they were picking us off one by
one. . . ."
Harry thought of the photograph again, of his parents' beaming
faces. He knew Moody was still watching him.
"Don't worry about Percy," said Sirius abruptly. "He'll come round.
It's a matter of time before Voldemort moves into the open; once he
does, the whole Ministry's going to be begging us to forgive them.
And I'm not sure I'll be accepting their apology," he added bitterly.
"And as for who's going to look after Ron and Ginny if you and
Arthur died," said Lupin, smiling slightly, "what do you think we'd
do, let them starve?"


 smiled tremulously.
"Being silly," she muttered again, mopping her eyes.
But Harry, closing his bedroom door behind him some ten minutes
later, could not think  silly. He could still see his parents
beaming up at him from the tattered old photograph, unaware that
their lives, like so many of those around them, were drawing to a close.
The image of the boggart posing as the corpse of each member of Mrs.
Weasley's family in turn kept flashing before his eyes.
Without warning, the scar on his forehead seared with pain again
and his stomach churned horribly.
"Cut it out," he said firmly, rubbing the scar as the pain receded
again.
"First sign of madness, talking to your own head," said a sly voice
from the empty picture on the wall.
Harry ignored it. He felt older than he had ever felt in his life, and
it seemed extraordinary to him that barely an hour ago he had been
worried about a joke shop and who had gotten a prefect's badge.



arry had a troubled night's sleep. His parents wove in and out
of his dreams, never speaking;  sobbed over
Kreacher's dead body watched by Ron and Hermione, who were wearing
crowns, and yet again Harry found himself walking down a corridor
ending in a locked door. He awoke abruptly with his scar
prickling to find Ron already dressed and talking to him.
". . . better hurry up, Mum's going ballistic, she says we're going to
miss the train. . . ."
There was a lot of commotion in the house. From what he heard as
he dressed at top speed, Harry gathered that Fred and George had bewitched
their trunks to fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying
them, with the result that they had hurtled straight into Ginny and
knocked her down two flights of stairs into the hall; Mrs. Black and
 were both screaming at the top of their voices.
"- COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, YOU
IDIOTS -"
"- FILTHY HALF-BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE HOUSE
OF MY FATHERS -"


Hermione came hurrying into the room looking flustered just as
Harry was putting on his trainers; Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder,
and she was carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms.
"Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig back" - the owl fluttered obligingly
over and perched on top of her cage - "are you ready yet?"
"Nearly - Ginny all right?" Harry asked, shoving on his glasses.
"'s patched her up," said Hermione. "But now Mad-
Eye's complaining that we can't leave unless Sturgis Podmore's here,
otherwise the guard will be one short."
"Guard?" said Harry. "We have to go to King's Cross with a guard?"
"You have to go to King's Cross with a guard," Hermione corrected
him.
"Why?" said Harry irritably. "I thought Voldemort was supposed
to be lying low, or are you telling me he's going to jump out from
behind a dustbin to try and do me in?"
"I don't know, it's just what Mad-Eye says," said Hermione
distractedly, looking at her watch. "But if we don't leave soon we're
definitely going to miss the train. . . ."
"WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!" Mrs.
Weasley bellowed and Hermione jumped as though scalded and
hurried out of the room. Harry seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously
into her cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione, dragging
his trunk.
Mrs. Black's portrait was howling with rage but nobody was bothering
to close the curtains over her; all the noise in the hall was bound
to rouse her again anyway.
"Harry, you're to come with me and Tonks," shouted 
over the repeated screeches of "MUDBLOODS! SCUM! CREATURES
OF DIRT !" "Leave your trunk and your owl, Alastor's going to deal with
the luggage. . . . Oh, for heaven's sake, Sirius, Dumbledore said no!"
A bearlike black dog had appeared at Harry's side as Harry clamLUNA
LOVEGOOD

bered over the various trunks cluttering the hall to get to Mrs.
Weasley.
"Oh honestly . . ." said  despairingly, "well, on your
own head be it!"
She wrenched open the front door and stepped out into the weak
September sunlight. Harry and the dog followed her. The door
slammed behind them and Mrs. Black's screeches were cut off
instantly.
"Where's Tonks?" Harry said, looking around as they went down
the stone steps of  which vanished the moment they
reached the pavement.
"She's waiting for us just up here," said  stiffly, averting
her eyes from the lolloping black dog beside Harry.
An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had tightly curled
gray hair and wore a purple hat shaped like a porkpie.
"Wotcher, Harry," she said, winking. "Better hurry up, hadn't we,
Molly?" she added, checking her watch.
"I know, I know," moaned , lengthening her stride,
"but Mad-Eye wanted to wait for Sturgis. . . . If only Arthur could
have got us cars from the Ministry again . . . but Fudge wouldn't let
him borrow so much as an empty ink bottle these days. . . . How
Muggles can stand traveling without magic . . ."
But the great black dog gave a joyful bark and gamboled around
them, snapping at pigeons, and chasing its own tail. Harry couldn't
help laughing. Sirius had been trapped inside for a very long time.
 pursed her lips in an almost Aunt Petunia-ish way.
It took them twenty minutes to reach King's Cross by foot and
nothing more eventful happened during that time than Sirius scaring
a couple of cats for Harry's entertainment. Once inside the station
they lingered casually beside the barrier between platforms nine and
ten until the coast was clear, then each of them leaned against it in


turn and fell easily through onto platform nine and three quarters,
where  Express stood belching sooty steam over a platform
packed with departing students and their families. Harry inhaled
the familiar smell and felt his spirits soar. . . . He was really going
back. . . .
"I hope the others make it in time," said  anxiously,
staring behind her at the wrought-iron arch spanning the platform,
through which new arrivals would come.
"Nice dog, Harry!" called a tall boy with dreadlocks.
"Thanks, Lee," said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged his tail
frantically.
"Oh good," said , sounding relieved, "here's Alastor
with the luggage, look . . ."
A porter's cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, Moody came
limping through the archway pushing a cart full of their trunks.
"All okay," he muttered to  and Tonks. "Don't think
we were followed. . . ."
Seconds later, Mr. Weasley emerged onto the platform with Ron
and Hermione. They had almost unloaded Moody's luggage cart
when Fred, George, and Ginny turned up with Lupin.
"No trouble?" growled Moody.
"Nothing," said Lupin.
"I'll still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore," said Moody. "That's
the second time he's not turned up in a week. Getting as unreliable as
Mundungus."
"Well, look after yourselves," said Lupin, shaking hands all round.
He reached Harry last and gave him a clap on the shoulder. "You too,
Harry. Be careful."
"Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled," said Moody,
shaking Harry's hand too. "And don't forget, all of you - careful
what you put in writing. If in doubt, don't put it in a letter at all."


"It's been great meeting all of you," said Tonks, hugging Hermione
and Ginny. "We'll see you soon, I expect."
A warning whistle sounded; the students still on the platform
started hurrying onto the train.
"Quick, quick," said  distractedly, hugging them at random
and catching Harry twice. "Write. . . . Be good. . . . If you've forgotten
anything we'll send it on. . . . Onto the train, now, hurry. . . ."
For one brief moment, the great black dog reared onto its hind legs
and placed its front paws on Harry's shoulders, but 
shoved Harry away toward the train door hissing, "For heaven's sake
act more like a dog, Sirius!"
"See you!" Harry called out of the open window as the train began
to move, while Ron, Hermione, and Ginny waved beside him. The
figures of Tonks, Lupin, Moody, and Mr. and  shrank
rapidly but the black dog was bounding alongside the window, wagging
its tail; blurred people on the platform were laughing to see it
chasing the train, and then they turned the corner, and Sirius was
gone.
"He shouldn't have come with us," said Hermione in a worried
voice.
"Oh lighten up," said Ron, "he hasn't seen daylight for months,
poor bloke."
"Well," said Fred, clapping his hands together, "can't stand around
chatting all day, we've got business to discuss with Lee. See you later,"
and he and George disappeared down the corridor to the right.
The train was gathering still more speed, so that the houses outside
the window flashed past and they swayed where they stood.
"Shall we go and find a compartment, then?" Harry asked Ron and
Hermione.
Ron and Hermione exchanged looks.
"Er," said Ron.


"We're - well - Ron and I are supposed to go into the prefect
carriage," Hermione said awkwardly.
Ron wasn't looking at Harry; he seemed to have become intensely
interested in the fingernails on his left hand.
"Oh," said Harry. "Right. Fine."
"I don't think we'll have to stay there all journey," said Hermione
quickly. "Our letters said we just get instructions from the Head Boy
and Girl and then patrol the corridors from time to time."
"Fine," said Harry again. "Well, I-I might see you later, then."
"Yeah, definitely," said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious look at Harry.
"It's a pain having to go down there, I'd rather - but we have to - I
mean, I'm not enjoying it, I'm not Percy," he finished defiantly.
"I know you're not," said Harry and he grinned. But as Hermione
and Ron dragged their trunks, Crookshanks, and a caged Pigwidgeon
off toward the engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd sense of loss.
He had never traveled on  Express without Ron.
"Come on," Ginny told him, "if we get a move on we'll be able to
save them places."
"Right," said Harry, picking up Hedwig's cage in one hand and the
handle of his trunk in the other. They struggled off down the corridor,
peering through the glass-paneled doors into the compartments they
passed, which were already full. Harry could not help noticing that a
lot of people stared back at him with great interest and that several of
them nudged their neighbors and pointed him out. After he had met
this behavior in five consecutive carriages he remembered that the
Daily Prophet had been telling its readers all summer what a lying
show-off he was. He wondered bleakly whether the people now staring
and whispering believed the stories.
In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, Harry's fellow
fifth-year Gryffindor, his round face shining with the effort of
pulling his trunk along and maintaining a one-handed grip on his
struggling toad, Trevor.


"Hi, Harry," he panted. "Hi, Ginny. . . . Everywhere's full. . . . I
can't find a seat. . . ."
"What are you talking about?" said Ginny, who had squeezed past
Neville to peer into the compartment behind him. "There's room in
this one, there's only Loony Lovegood in here -"
Neville mumbled something about not wanting to disturb anyone.
"Don't be silly," said Ginny, laughing, "she's all right."
She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside it. Harry and
Neville followed.
"Hi, Luna," said Ginny. "Is it okay if we take these seats?"
The girl beside the window looked up. She had straggly, waistlength,
dirty-blond hair, very pale eyebrows, and protuberant eyes
that gave her a permanently surprised look. Harry knew at once why
Neville had chosen to pass this compartment by. The girl gave off an
aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it was the fact that she had stuck her
wand behind her left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to
wear a necklace of butterbeer caps, or that she was reading a magazine
upside down. Her eyes ranged over Neville and came to rest on Harry.
She nodded.
"Thanks," said Ginny, smiling at her.
Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and Hedwig's cage in
the luggage rack and sat down. The girl called Luna watched them
over her upside-down magazine, which was called The Quibbler. She
did not seem to need to blink as much as normal humans. She stared
and stared at Harry, who had taken the seat opposite her and now
wished he had not.
"Had a good summer, Luna?" Ginny asked.
"Yes," said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off Harry. "Yes,
it was quite enjoyable, you know. You're Harry Potter," she added.
"I know I am," said Harry.
Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes upon him instead.
"And I don't know who you are."


"I'm nobody," said Neville hurriedly.
"No you're not," said Ginny sharply. "Neville Longbottom -
. Luna's in my year, but in Ravenclaw."
"Wit beyond measure is man's greatest treasure," said Luna in a
singsong voice.
She raised her upside-down magazine high enough to hide her face
and fell silent. Harry and Neville looked at each other with their eyebrows
raised. Ginny suppressed a giggle.
The train rattled onward, speeding them out into open country. It
was an odd, unsettled sort of day; one moment the carriage was full of
sunlight and the next they were passing beneath ominously gray
clouds.
"Guess what I got for my birthday?" said Neville.
"Another Remembrall?" said Harry, remembering the marblelike
device Neville's grandmother had sent him in an effort to improve his
abysmal .
"No," said Neville, "I could do with one, though, I lost the old one
ages ago. . . . No, look at this. . . ."
He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on Trevor into
his schoolbag and after a little bit of rummaging pulled out what appeared
to be a small gray cactus in a pot, except that it was covered
with what looked like boils rather than spines.
"Mimbulus mimbletonia," he said proudly.
Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, giving it the
rather sinister look of some diseased internal organ.
"It's really, really rare," said Neville, beaming. "I don't know if
there's one in the greenhouse at Hogwarts, even. I can't wait to show
it to Professor Sprout. My great-uncle Algie got it for me in Assyria.
I'm going to see if I can breed from it."
Harry knew that Neville's favorite subject was Herbology, but for
the life of him he could not see what he would want with this stunted
little plant.


"Does it - er - do anything?" he asked.
"Loads of stuff!" said Neville proudly. "It's got an amazing defensive
mechanism - hold Trevor for me. . . ."
He dumped the toad into Harry's lap and took a quill from his
schoolbag. 's popping eyes appeared over the top of
her upside-down magazine again, watching what Neville was doing.
Neville held the Mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue between
his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant a sharp prod with
the tip of his quill.
Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant, thick, stinking, darkgreen
jets of it; they hit the ceiling, the windows, and spattered Luna
Lovegood's magazine. Ginny, who had flung her arms up in front of
her face just in time, merely looked as though she was wearing a slimy
green hat, but Harry, whose hands had been busy preventing the escape
of Trevor, received a face full. It smelled like rancid manure.
Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, shook his head to
get the worst out of his eyes.
"S-sorry," he gasped. "I haven't tried that before. . . . Didn't realize
it would be quite so . . . Don't worry, though, Stinksap's not poisonous,"
he added nervously, as Harry spat a mouthful onto the floor.
At that precise moment the door of their compartment slid open.
"Oh . . . hello, Harry," said a nervous voice. "Um . . . bad time?"
Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor-free hand. A
very pretty girl with long, shiny black hair was standing in the doorway
smiling at him: Cho Chang, the Seeker on the Ravenclaw Quidditch
team.
"Oh . . . hi," said Harry blankly.
"Um . . ." said Cho. "Well . . . just thought I'd say hello . . . 'bye
then."
She closed the door again, rather pink in the face, and departed.
Harry slumped back in his seat and groaned. He would have liked
Cho to discover him sitting with a group of very cool people laughing


their heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not have chosen to
be sitting with Neville and Loony Lovegood, clutching a toad and
dripping in Stinksap.
"Never mind," said Ginny bracingly. "Look, we can get rid of all
this easily." She pulled out her wand. "Scourgify!"
The Stinksap vanished.
"Sorry," said Neville again, in a small voice.
Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an hour, by which
time the food trolley had already gone by. Harry, Ginny, and Neville
had finished their Pumpkin Pasties and were busy swapping Chocolate
Frog cards when the compartment door slid open and they
walked in, accompanied by Crookshanks and a shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon
in his cage.
"I'm starving," said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to Hedwig,
grabbing a Chocolate Frog from Harry and throwing himself into the
seat next to him. He ripped open the wrapper, bit off the Frog's head,
and leaned back with his eyes closed as though he had had a very exhausting
morning.
"Well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each House," said
Hermione, looking thoroughly disgruntled as she took her seat. "Boy
and girl from each."
"And guess who's a Slytherin prefect?" said Ron, still with his eyes
closed.
"Malfoy," replied Harry at once, his worst fear confirmed.
" 'Course," said Ron bitterly, stuffing the rest of the Frog into his
mouth and taking another.
"And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson," said Hermione viciously.
"How she got to be a prefect when she's thicker than a concussed
troll . . ."
"Who's Hufflepuff?" Harry asked.
"Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott," said Ron thickly.


"And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for Ravenclaw," said
Hermione.
"You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil," said a vague voice.
Everyone turned to look at , who was gazing unblinkingly
at Ron over the top of The Quibbler. He swallowed his
mouthful of Frog.
"Yeah, I know I did," he said, looking mildly surprised.
"She didn't enjoy it very much," Luna informed him. "She doesn't
think you treated her very well, because you wouldn't dance with her.
I don't think I'd have minded," she added thoughtfully, "I don't like
dancing very much."
She retreated behind The Quibbler again. Ron stared at the cover
with his mouth hanging open for a few seconds, then looked around
at Ginny for some kind of explanation, but Ginny had stuffed her
knuckles in her mouth to stop herself giggling. Ron shook his head,
bemused, then checked his watch.
"We're supposed to patrol the corridors every so often," he told
Harry and Neville, "and we can give out punishments if people are
misbehaving. I can't wait to get Crabbe and Goyle for something. . . ."
"You're not supposed to abuse your position, Ron!" said Hermione
sharply.
"Yeah, right, because Malfoy won't abuse it at all," said Ron
sarcastically.
"So you're going to descend to his level?"
"No, I'm just going to make sure I get his mates before he gets
mine."
"For heaven's sake, Ron -"
"I'll make Goyle do lines, it'll kill him, he hates writing," said Ron
happily. He lowered his voice to Goyle's low grunt and, screwing up his
face in a look of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. "I . . .
must . . . not . . . look . . . like . . . a . . . baboon's . . . backside. . . ."


Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than .
She let out a scream of mirth that caused Hedwig to wake up
and flap her wings indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the
luggage rack, hissing. She laughed so hard that her magazine slipped
out of her grasp, slid down her legs, and onto the floor.
"That was funny!"
Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for breath, staring
at Ron. Utterly nonplussed, he looked around at the others, who were
now laughing at the expression on Ron's face and at the ludicrously
prolonged laughter of , who was rocking backward and
forward, clutching her sides.
"Are you taking the mickey?" said Ron, frowning at her.
"Baboon's . . . backside!" she choked, holding her ribs.
Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, but Harry, glancing at
the magazine on the floor, noticed something that made him dive for
it. Upside down it had been hard to tell what the picture on the front
was, but Harry now realized it was a fairly bad cartoon of Cornelius
Fudge; Harry only recognized him because of the lime-green bowler
hat. One of Fudge's hands was clenched around a bag of gold; the
other hand was throttling a goblin. The cartoon was captioned: How
Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts?
Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles inside the magazine.
CORRUPTION IN THE QUIDDITCH LEAGUE:
How the Tornados Are Taking Control
SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT RUNES REVEALED
SIRIUS BLACK: Villain or Victim?
"Can I have a look at this?" Harry asked Luna eagerly.
She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with laughter.

